Allah presents an example of those who disbelieved: the wife of Noah and the wife of Lot. They were under two of Our righteous servants but betrayed them, so those prophets did not avail them from Allah at all, and it was said, "Enter the Fire with those who enter
And when a sign comes to them, they say, "Never will we believe until we are given like that which was given to the messengers of Allah." Allah is most knowing of where He places His message. There will afflict those who committed crimes debasement before Allah and severe punishment for what they used to conspire
There is no blame upon you for seeking bounty from your Lord during Hajj. But when you depart from 'Arafat, remember Allah at al- Mash'ar al-Haram. And remember Him, as He has guided you, for indeed, you were before that among those astray
But the righteous one will avoid it
He said, "My Lord, indeed my bones have weakened, and my head has filled with white, and never have I been in my supplication to You, my Lord, unhappy
Whoever disbelieves in Allah after his belief... except for one who is forced to renounce his religion while his heart is secure in faith. But those who willingly open their breasts to disbelief, upon them is wrath from Allah, and for them is a great punishment
And the jinn We created before from scorching fire
But when He gives them a good child, they ascribe partners to Him concerning that which He has given them. Exalted is Allah above what they associate with Him
But he has not broken through the difficult pass
And warn by the Qur'an those who fear that they will be gathered before their Lord - for them besides Him will be no protector and no intercessor - that they might become righteous
Then what is the matter with them that they are, from the reminder, turning away
We will ease him toward difficulty
Thus. And We will marry them to fair women with large, beautiful eyes
Indeed, We sent down the Torah, in which was guidance and light. The prophets who submitted to Allah judged by it for the Jews, as did the rabbis and scholars by that with which they were entrusted of the Scripture of Allah, and they were witnesses thereto. So do not fear the people but fear Me, and do not exchange My verses for a small price. And whoever does not judge by what Allah has revealed - then it is those who are the disbelievers
And covered them by that which He covered
It is Allah who sends the winds, and they stir the clouds and spread them in the sky however He wills, and He makes them fragments so you see the rain emerge from within them. And when He causes it to fall upon whom He wills of His servants, immediately they rejoice
O you who have believed, spend from that which We have provided for you before there comes a Day in which there is no exchange and no friendship and no intercession. And the disbelievers - they are the wrongdoers
Maintain with care the obligatory prayers and in particular the middle prayer and stand before Allah, devoutly obedient
Not upon the Messenger is responsibility except for notification. And Allah knows whatever you reveal and whatever you conceal
And never think that Allah is unaware of what the wrongdoers do. He only delays them for a Day when eyes will stare in horror
And the grazing livestock He has created for you; in them is warmth and numerous benefits, and from them you eat
Those angels who carry the Throne and those around it exalt Allah with praise of their Lord and believe in Him and ask forgiveness for those who have believed, saying, "Our Lord, You have encompassed all things in mercy and knowledge, so forgive those who have repented and followed Your way and protect them from the punishment of Hellfire
We will attend to you, O prominent beings
Ask the Children of Israel how many a sign of evidence We have given them. And whoever exchanges the favor of Allah for disbelief after it has come to him - then indeed, Allah is severe in penalty
Those who remained behind will say when you set out toward the war booty to take it, "Let us follow you." They wish to change the words of Allah. Say, "Never will you follow us. Thus did Allah say before." So they will say, "Rather, you envy us." But in fact they were not understanding except a little
He said, "My Lord, prison is more to my liking than that to which they invite me. And if You do not avert from me their plan, I might incline toward them and thus be of the ignorant
No! Indeed, the record of the righteous is in 'illiyyun
The Inevitable Reality
But when there comes the greatest Overwhelming Calamity
Indeed, the righteous will be in a secure place
He presents to you an example from yourselves. Do you have among those whom your right hands possess any partners in what We have provided for you so that you are equal therein and would fear them as your fear of one another within a partnership? Thus do We detail the verses for a people who use reason
And We did not destroy any city but that for it was a known decree
Nor are the darknesses and the light
And that it is He who causes death and gives life
So she pointed to him. They said, "How can we speak to one who is in the cradle a child
O Children of Israel, remember My favor that I have bestowed upon you and that I preferred you over the worlds
May the hands of Abu Lahab be ruined, and ruined is he
O Prophet, fight against the disbelievers and the hypocrites and be harsh upon them. And their refuge is Hell, and wretched is the destination
Hearts, that Day, will tremble
Allah is the one who created you from weakness, then made after weakness strength, then made after strength weakness and white hair. He creates what He wills, and He is the Knowing, the Competent
Then did you think that We created you uselessly and that to Us you would not be returned
Then she brought him to her people, carrying him. They said, "O Mary, you have certainly done a thing unprecedented
If you do not go forth, He will punish you with a painful punishment and will replace you with another people, and you will not harm Him at all. And Allah is over all things competent
And We will surely cause you to dwell in the land after them. That is for he who fears My position and fears My threat
They will say, "To Allah." Say, "Then will you not remember
But those who deny Our verses - the punishment will touch them for their defiant disobedience
Satan only wants to cause between you animosity and hatred through intoxicants and gambling and to avert you from the remembrance of Allah and from prayer. So will you not desist
Give full measure and do not be of those who cause loss
And no sign comes to them from the signs of their Lord except that they turn away therefrom
And indeed, your Lord - He is the Exalted in Might, the Merciful
O you who have believed, do not enter houses other than your own houses until you ascertain welcome and greet their inhabitants. That is best for you; perhaps you will be reminded
So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny
And recite, O Muhammad, what has been revealed to you of the Book of your Lord. There is no changer of His words, and never will you find in other than Him a refuge
But if they turn away, then indeed - Allah is Knowing of the corrupters
Wherein they will hear no unsuitable speech
Then He will say, "But stand apart today, you criminals
To whom Allah will say, "O My servants, no fear will there be concerning you this Day, nor will you grieve
Then do you wonder that there has come to you a reminder from your Lord through a man from among you, that he may warn you? And remember when He made you successors after the people of Noah and increased you in stature extensively. So remember the favors of Allah that you might succeed
My Lord, save me and my family from the consequence of what they do
The People of the Scripture ask you to bring down to them a book from the heaven. But they had asked of Moses even greater than that and said, "Show us Allah outright," so the thunderbolt struck them for their wrongdoing. Then they took the calf for worship after clear evidences had come to them, and We pardoned that. And We gave Moses a clear authority
Indeed, those who have said, "Our Lord is Allah," and then remained on a right course - there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve
Eat therefrom and pasture your livestock. Indeed, in that are signs for those of intelligence
He is Allah, the Creator, the Inventor, the Fashioner; to Him belong the best names. Whatever is in the heavens and earth is exalting Him. And He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise
And if the deceased was of those brought near to Allah
Pharaoh said, "Then bring it, if you should be of the truthful
And remind, for indeed, the reminder benefits the believers
Indeed in that is a sign for those who fear the punishment of the Hereafter. That is a Day for which the people will be collected, and that is a Day which will be witnessed
Exalted and purified
Have you not seen those who were told, "Restrain your hands from fighting and establish prayer and give zakah"? But then when fighting was ordained for them, at once a party of them feared men as they fear Allah or with even greater fear. They said, "Our Lord, why have You decreed upon us fighting? If only You had postponed it for us for a short time." Say, The enjoyment of this world is little, and the Hereafter is better for he who fears Allah. And injustice will not be done to you, even as much as a thread inside a date seed
So is it other than the religion of Allah they desire, while to Him have submitted all those within the heavens and earth, willingly or by compulsion, and to Him they will be returned
The Day they will emerge from the graves rapidly as if they were, toward an erected idol, hastening
So set out with your family during a portion of the night and follow behind them and let not anyone among you look back and continue on to where you are commanded
That We may show you some of Our greater signs
And for their taking of usury while they had been forbidden from it, and their consuming of the people's wealth unjustly. And we have prepared for the disbelievers among them a painful punishment
And they carry your loads to a land you could not have reached except with difficulty to yourselves. Indeed, your Lord is Kind and Merciful
But those who deny Our verses are deaf and dumb within darknesses. Whomever Allah wills - He leaves astray; and whomever He wills - He puts him on a straight path
And weigh with an even balance
O sister of Aaron, your father was not a man of evil, nor was your mother unchaste
And it is all the same for them whether you warn them or do not warn them - they will not believe
The Day He will assemble you for the Day of Assembly - that is the Day of Deprivation. And whoever believes in Allah and does righteousness - He will remove from him his misdeeds and admit him to gardens beneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide forever. That is the great attainment
So We removed them from gardens and springs
And among the bedouins are some who consider what they spend as a loss and await for you turns of misfortune. Upon them will be a misfortune of evil. And Allah is Hearing and Knowing
And not a devoted friend
And We have not sent you, O Muhammad, except as a bringer of good tidings and a warner
It is the same to Him concerning you whether one conceals his speech or one publicizes it and whether one is hidden by night or conspicuous among others by day
But Pharaoh disobeyed the messenger, so We seized him with a ruinous seizure
And they will be presented before your Lord in rows, and He will say, "You have certainly come to Us just as We created you the first time. But you claimed that We would never make for you an appointment
And preferred the life of the world
Saying, "We feed you only for the countenance of Allah. We wish not from you reward or gratitude
That indeed for you is whatever you choose
And never is it for a believer to kill a believer except by mistake. And whoever kills a believer by mistake - then the freeing of a believing slave and a compensation payment presented to the deceased's family is required unless they give up their right as charity. But if the deceased was from a people at war with you and he was a believer - then only the freeing of a believing slave; and if he was from a people with whom you have a treaty - then a compensation payment presented to his family and the freeing of a believing slave. And whoever does not find one or cannot afford to buy one - then instead, a fast for two months consecutively, seeking acceptance of repentance from Allah. And Allah is ever Knowing and Wise
In the Gardens of Pleasure
He created the heavens and earth in truth and formed you and perfected your forms; and to Him is the final destination
Or do they say about the Prophet, "He invented it?" Say, "Then bring forth a surah like it and call upon for assistance whomever you can besides Allah, if you should be truthful
And Pharaoh called out among his people; he said, "O my people, does not the kingdom of Egypt belong to me, and these rivers flowing beneath me; then do you not see
Which neither nourishes nor avails against hunger
They only invent falsehood who do not believe in the verses of Allah, and it is those who are the liars
Do they not know that it is Allah who accepts repentance from His servants and receives charities and that it is Allah who is the Accepting of repentance, the Merciful
His command is only when He intends a thing that He says to it, "Be," and it is
When Shu'ayb said to them, "Will you not fear Allah
Al-Khidh r said, "Did I not say that with me you would never be able to have patience
He who created death and life to test you as to which of you is best in deed - and He is the Exalted in Might, the Forgiving
Did We not destroy the former peoples
Then do they await except that the Hour should come upon them unexpectedly? But already there have come some of its indications. Then what good to them, when it has come, will be their remembrance
Their garments of liquid pitch and their faces covered by the Fire
From a fountain within Paradise named Salsabeel
That is because Allah is the Truth, and that which they call upon other than Him is falsehood, and because Allah is the Most High, the Grand
And what struck you on the day the two armies met was by permission of Allah that He might make evident the true believers
Indeed in that are signs for those who discern
There shall be no compulsion in acceptance of the religion. The right course has become clear from the wrong. So whoever disbelieves in Taghut and believes in Allah has grasped the most trustworthy handhold with no break in it. And Allah is Hearing and Knowing
They will not hear its sound, while they are, in that which their souls desire, abiding eternally
Allah said, "We will strengthen your arm through your brother and grant you both supremacy so they will not reach you. It will be through Our signs; you and those who follow you will be the predominant
And We have certainly diversified in this Qur'an for the people from every kind of example; but man has ever been, most of anything, prone to dispute
Look how they invent about Allah untruth, and sufficient is that as a manifest sin
And those who are patient, seeking the countenance of their Lord, and establish prayer and spend from what We have provided for them secretly and publicly and prevent evil with good - those will have the good consequence of this home
When the two receivers receive, seated on the right and on the left
So Today those who believed are laughing at the disbelievers
And there is prohibition upon the people of a city which We have destroyed that they will ever return
The example of Paradise, which the righteous have been promised, is that beneath it rivers flow. Its fruit is lasting, and its shade. That is the consequence for the righteous, and the consequence for the disbelievers is the Fire
And there is no one of you who could prevent Us from him
So who is more unjust than one who lies about Allah and denies the truth when it has come to him? Is there not in Hell a residence for the disbelievers
And warn of the Day when We will gather from every nation a company of those who deny Our signs, and they will be driven in rows
Say, "The knowledge is only with Allah, and I am only a clear warner
So today no soul will be wronged at all, and you will not be recompensed except for what you used to do
Remember when He overwhelmed you with drowsiness giving security from Him and sent down upon you from the sky, rain by which to purify you and remove from you the evil suggestions of Satan and to make steadfast your hearts and plant firmly thereby your feet
Indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - indeed, We will not allow to be lost the reward of any who did well in deeds
Indeed, Abraham was a comprehensive leader, devoutly obedient to Allah, inclining toward truth, and he was not of those who associate others with Allah
Then We return him to the lowest of the low
Say to those who remained behind of the bedouins, "You will be called to face a people of great military might; you may fight them, or they will submit. So if you obey, Allah will give you a good reward; but if you turn away as you turned away before, He will punish you with a painful punishment
By the clear Book
It is We who relate to you, O Muhammad, their story in truth. Indeed, they were youths who believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance
Does he not know that Allah sees
Taught to him by one intense in strength
Who perfected everything which He created and began the creation of man from clay
The Day their plan will not avail them at all, nor will they be helped
And a man came from the farthest end of the city, running. He said, "O Moses, indeed the eminent ones are conferring over you intending to kill you, so leave the city; indeed, I am to you of the sincere advisors
Pharaoh said to the eminent ones around him, "Indeed, this is a learned magician
So never think that Allah will fail in His promise to His messengers. Indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Owner of Retribution
And to Allah belong the best names, so invoke Him by them. And leave the company of those who practice deviation concerning His names. They will be recompensed for what they have been doing
You invite me to disbelieve in Allah and associate with Him that of which I have no knowledge, and I invite you to the Exalted in Might, the Perpetual Forgiver
So the angels prostrated - all of them entirely
Say, "Do you worship besides Allah that which holds for you no power of harm or benefit while it is Allah who is the Hearing, the Knowing
Striking them with stones of hard clay
All food was lawful to the Children of Israel except what Israel had made unlawful to himself before the Torah was revealed. Say, O Muhammad, "So bring the Torah and recite it, if you should be truthful
And We will turn away their hearts and their eyes just as they refused to believe in it the first time. And We will leave them in their transgression, wandering blindly
The mosques of Allah are only to be maintained by those who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish prayer and give zakah and do not fear except Allah, for it is expected that those will be of the rightly guided
Theirs is like the example of those shortly before them: they tasted the bad consequence of their affair, and they will have a painful punishment
But when he gave them from His bounty, they were stingy with it and turned away while they refused
And some faces, that Day, will be contorted
So observe the effects of the mercy of Allah - how He gives life to the earth after its lifelessness. Indeed, that same one will give life to the dead, and He is over all things competent
And We have certainly made the Qur'an easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember
And Allah wants to lighten for you your difficulties; and mankind was created weak
Shall I inform you upon whom the devils descend
In a clear Arabic language
And he had already warned them of Our assault, but they disputed the warning
No bad effect is there in it, nor from it will they be intoxicated
The one who has made for you the earth a bed and made for you upon it roads that you might be guided
And do not kill your children for fear of poverty. We provide for them and for you. Indeed, their killing is ever a great sin
He said, "Knowledge of its time is only with Allah, and I convey to you that with which I was sent; but I see you to be a people behaving ignorantly
And they said, "Our hearts are wrapped." But, in fact, Allah has cursed them for their disbelief, so little is it that they believe
Some faces, that Day, will be radiant
And when the Qur'an is recited to them, they do not prostrate to Allah
Say, O Muhammad, "Bring forward your witnesses who will testify that Allah has prohibited this." And if they testify, do not testify with them. And do not follow the desires of those who deny Our verses and those who do not believe in the Hereafter, while they equate others with their Lord
Woe to you, and woe
Indeed, the criminals will be in the punishment of Hell, abiding eternally
Indeed mankind, to his Lord, is ungrateful
Wealth and children are but adornment of the worldly life. But the enduring good deeds are better to your Lord for reward and better for one's hope
And they will say, "If only we had been listening or reasoning, we would not be among the companions of the Blaze
He will say, "You stayed not but a little - if only you had known
So whoever Allah wants to guide - He expands his breast to contain Islam; and whoever He wants to misguide - He makes his breast tight and constricted as though he were climbing into the sky. Thus does Allah place defilement upon those who do not believe
He said, "Have you come to us to drive us out of our land with your magic, O Moses
But if you should desire Allah and His Messenger and the home of the Hereafter - then indeed, Allah has prepared for the doers of good among you a great reward
And among them are those who abuse the Prophet and say, "He is an ear." Say, "It is an ear of goodness for you that believes in Allah and believes the believers and is a mercy to those who believe among you." And those who abuse the Messenger of Allah - for them is a painful punishment
Indeed, it is We who bring the dead to life and record what they have put forth and what they left behind, and all things We have enumerated in a clear register
The lightning almost snatches away their sight. Every time it lights the way for them, they walk therein; but when darkness comes over them, they stand still. And if Allah had willed, He could have taken away their hearing and their sight. Indeed, Allah is over all things competent
And they, to what they were doing against the believers, were witnesses
And enter to burn in a Blaze
And you would think them awake, while they were asleep. And We turned them to the right and to the left, while their dog stretched his forelegs at the entrance. If you had looked at them, you would have turned from them in flight and been filled by them with terror
Or have they taken other than Allah as intercessors? Say, "Even though they do not possess power over anything, nor do they reason
And it is not for a soul to believe except by permission of Allah, and He will place defilement upon those who will not use reason
And Pharaoh said, "Let me kill Moses and let him call upon his Lord. Indeed, I fear that he will change your religion or that he will cause corruption in the land
And that was Our conclusive argument which We gave Abraham against his people. We raise by degrees whom We will. Indeed, your Lord is Wise and Knowing
Satan has overcome them and made them forget the remembrance of Allah. Those are the party of Satan. Unquestionably, the party of Satan - they will be the losers
Moses said, "Then go. And indeed, it is decreed for you in this life to say, 'No contact.' And indeed, you have an appointment in the Hereafter you will not fail to keep. And look at your 'god' to which you remained devoted. We will surely burn it and blow it into the sea with a blast
O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones, over which are appointed angels, harsh and severe; they do not disobey Allah in what He commands them but do what they are commanded
And the forerunners, the forerunners
So his Lord responded to him and averted from him their plan. Indeed, He is the Hearing, the Knowing
And fear He who provided you with that which you know
Allah has prepared for them gardens beneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide eternally. That is the great attainment
Every matter proceeding from Us. Indeed, We were to send a messenger
And they said, "If the Most Merciful had willed, we would not have worshipped them." They have of that no knowledge. They are not but falsifying
It is You we worship and You we ask for help
And the stars and trees prostrate
That is because Allah causes the night to enter the day and causes the day to enter the night and because Allah is Hearing and Seeing
He said, "Return them to me," and set about striking their legs and necks
O you who have believed, seek help through patience and prayer. Indeed, Allah is with the patient
And mention, O Muhammad, the Day when He will gather them together and say, "O company of jinn, you have misled many of mankind." And their allies among mankind will say, "Our Lord, some of us made use of others, and we have now reached our term, which you appointed for us." He will say, "The Fire is your residence, wherein you will abide eternally, except for what Allah wills. Indeed, your Lord is Wise and Knowing
He said, "Yes, and indeed, you will then be of those near to me
Man was created of haste. I will show you My signs, so do not impatiently urge Me
And if Allah were to impose blame on the people for their wrongdoing, He would not have left upon the earth any creature, but He defers them for a specified term. And when their term has come, they will not remain behind an hour, nor will they precede it
That is for what your hands have put forth and because Allah is not ever unjust to His servants
And they worship besides Allah that which does not possess for them the power of provision from the heavens and the earth at all, and in fact, they are unable
Man does not utter any word except that with him is an observer prepared to record
Indeed, the penalty for those who wage war against Allah and His Messenger and strive upon earth to cause corruption is none but that they be killed or crucified or that their hands and feet be cut off from opposite sides or that they be exiled from the land. That is for them a disgrace in this world; and for them in the Hereafter is a great punishment
And by the even number and the odd
The people of Noah denied before them, and the tribe of 'Aad and Pharaoh, the owner of stakes
So let those fight in the cause of Allah who sell the life of this world for the Hereafter. And he who fights in the cause of Allah and is killed or achieves victory - We will bestow upon him a great reward
Say, "I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind
And never will it benefit you that Day, when you have wronged, that you are all sharing in the punishment
So they hamstrung the she-camel and were insolent toward the command of their Lord and said, "O Salih, bring us what you promise us, if you should be of the messengers
Or did the people of the cities feel secure from Our punishment coming to them in the morning while they were at play
Except from their wives or those their right hands possess, for indeed, they are not to be blamed
Indeed, this was the clear trial
But as for those who disbelieved, it will be said, "Were not Our verses recited to you, but you were arrogant and became a people of criminals
And He also forgave the three who were left behind and regretted their error to the point that the earth closed in on them in spite of its vastness and their souls confined them and they were certain that there is no refuge from Allah except in Him. Then He turned to them so they could repent. Indeed, Allah is the Accepting of repentance, the Merciful
And present to them an example of two men: We granted to one of them two gardens of grapevines, and We bordered them with palm trees and placed between them fields of crops
And it is not for any human being that Allah should speak to him except by revelation or from behind a partition or that He sends a messenger to reveal, by His permission, what He wills. Indeed, He is Most High and Wise
So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny
And We have certainly presented to the people in this Qur'an from every kind of example. But, O Muhammad, if you should bring them a sign, the disbelievers will surely say, "You believers are but falsifiers
Those who have believed and done righteous deeds - a good state is theirs and a good return
On that night is made distinct every precise matter
In extended columns
Within it are couches raised high
Proceed to a shadow of smoke having three columns
That is so al-'Azeez will know that I did not betray him in his absence and that Allah does not guide the plan of betrayers
They know whatever you do
And We delivered him and Lot to the land which We had blessed for the worlds
He said, "My Lord, for the favor You bestowed upon me, I will never be an assistant to the criminals
And when the trumpet is blown
Do you construct on every elevation a sign, amusing yourselves
Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels ask Him to do so. O you who have believed, ask Allah to confer blessing upon him and ask Allah to grant him peace
And you were not covering yourselves, lest your hearing testify against you or your sight or your skins, but you assumed that Allah does not know much of what you do
It is He who has made you successors upon the earth. And whoever disbelieves - upon him will be the consequence of his disbelief. And the disbelief of the disbelievers does not increase them in the sight of their Lord except in hatred; and the disbelief of the disbelievers does not increase them except in loss
Allah will say, "Enter among nations which had passed on before you of jinn and mankind into the Fire." Every time a nation enters, it will curse its sister until, when they have all overtaken one another therein, the last of them will say about the first of them "Our Lord, these had misled us, so give them a double punishment of the Fire. He will say, "For each is double, but you do not know
And We gave Moses the Scripture and made it a guidance for the Children of Israel that you not take other than Me as Disposer of affairs
Iblees said, "My Lord, because You have put me in error, I will surely make disobedience attractive to them on earth, and I will mislead them all
And do not wish for that by which Allah has made some of you exceed others. For men is a share of what they have earned, and for women is a share of what they have earned. And ask Allah of his bounty. Indeed Allah is ever, of all things, Knowing
And say, "My Lord, I seek refuge in You from the incitements of the devils
And they should consider that when those who have been followed disassociate themselves from those who followed them, and they all see the punishment, and cut off from them are the ties of relationship
Or has he not been informed of what was in the scriptures of Moses
Then why did those they took besides Allah as deities by which to approach Him not aid them? But they had strayed from them. And that was their falsehood and what they were inventing
So nothing availed them from what they used to earn
And of Abraham, who fulfilled his obligations
Let them eat and enjoy themselves and be diverted by false hope, for they are going to know
Then We forgave you after that so perhaps you would be grateful
They wish you would disbelieve as they disbelieved so you would be alike. So do not take from among them allies until they emigrate for the cause of Allah. But if they turn away, then seize them and kill them wherever you find them and take not from among them any ally or helper
Blackness will cover them
And who is more unjust than one who invents about Allah untruth while he is being invited to Islam. And Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people
Indeed, in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of the night and the day are signs for those of understanding
And We made the highest part of the city its lowest and rained upon them stones of hard clay
Have you not seen those who claim to have believed in what was revealed to you, O Muhammad, and what was revealed before you? They wish to refer legislation to Taghut, while they were commanded to reject it; and Satan wishes to lead them far astray
So they defeated them by permission of Allah, and David killed Goliath, and Allah gave him the kingship and prophethood and taught him from that which He willed. And if it were not for Allah checking some people by means of others, the earth would have been corrupted, but Allah is full of bounty to the worlds
And if you should obey a man like yourselves, indeed, you would then be losers
What is the matter with you that you are two groups concerning the hypocrites, while Allah has made them fall back into error and disbelief for what they earned. Do you wish to guide those whom Allah has sent astray? And he whom Allah sends astray - never will you find for him a way of guidance
It is Allah who made for you the grazing animals upon which you ride, and some of them you eat
And to Allah prostrates whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth of creatures, and the angels as well, and they are not arrogant
And made me dutiful to my mother, and He has not made me a wretched tyrant
Indeed, the hours of the night are more effective for concurrence of heart and tongue and more suitable for words
We have not heard of this in the latest religion. This is not but a fabrication
And recall, O Children of Israel, when Moses said to His people, "Remember the favor of Allah upon you when He saved you from the people of Pharaoh, who were afflicting you with the worst torment and were slaughtering your newborn sons and keeping your females alive. And in that was a great trial from your Lord
And We certainly seized the people of Pharaoh with years of famine and a deficiency in fruits that perhaps they would be reminded
Has there reached you the story of the soldiers
And those ships sailing with ease
And We destroyed the people of Noah before; indeed, they were a people defiantly disobedient
And when he said to his father and his people, "What do you worship
Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded
Then what is your thought about the Lord of the worlds
That home of the Hereafter We assign to those who do not desire exaltedness upon the earth or corruption. And the best outcome is for the righteous
They said, "O Shu'ayb, does your prayer command you that we should leave what our fathers worship or not do with our wealth what we please? Indeed, you are the forbearing, the discerning
And when it is said to them, "Come to what Allah has revealed and to the Messenger," they say, "Sufficient for us is that upon which we found our fathers." Even though their fathers knew nothing, nor were they guided
Have they not seen how many generations We destroyed before them which We had established upon the earth as We have not established you? And We sent rain from the sky upon them in showers and made rivers flow beneath them; then We destroyed them for their sins and brought forth after them a generation of others
And those within whose wealth is a known right
Say, O Muhammad, "On the Day of Conquest the belief of those who had disbelieved will not benefit them, nor will they be reprieved
And it is He who sends the winds as good tidings before His mercy, and We send down from the sky pure water
Alif, Lam, Meem
And mention Lot, when he said to his people, "Indeed, you commit such immorality as no one has preceded you with from among the worlds
Indeed, you disbelievers will be tasters of the painful punishment
For them there will be no food except from a poisonous, thorny plant
We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve for what they have associated with Allah of which He had not sent down any authority. And their refuge will be the Fire, and wretched is the residence of the wrongdoers
Then he frowned and scowled
Then into Hellfire drive him
So they set out, while lowering their voices
And He is the subjugator over His servants. And He is the Wise, the Acquainted with all
And give the women upon marriage their bridal gifts graciously. But if they give up willingly to you anything of it, then take it in satisfaction and ease
And if not that a disaster should strike them for what their hands put forth of sins and they would say, "Our Lord, why did You not send us a messenger so we could have followed Your verses and been among the believers
Indeed, this is in the former scriptures
Our Lord, remove us from it, and if we were to return to evil, we would indeed be wrongdoers
But if Allah had willed, they would not have associated. And We have not appointed you over them as a guardian, nor are you a manager over them
Then Allah said, "It is expected, if you repent, that your Lord will have mercy upon you. But if you return to sin, We will return to punishment. And We have made Hell, for the disbelievers, a prison-bed
To Pharaoh and his establishment, but they followed the command of Pharaoh, and the command of Pharaoh was not at all discerning
What remains lawful from Allah is best for you, if you would be believers. But I am not a guardian over you
You who believed in Our verses and were Muslims
If He wills, He can do away with you and bring forth a new creation
Do they have feet by which they walk? Or do they have hands by which they strike? Or do they have eyes by which they see? Or do they have ears by which they hear? Say, O Muhammad, "Call your 'partners' and then conspire against me and give me no respite
And I do not tell you that I have the depositories containing the provision of Allah or that I know the unseen, nor do I tell you that I am an angel, nor do I say of those upon whom your eyes look down that Allah will never grant them any good. Allah is most knowing of what is within their souls. Indeed, I would then be among the wrongdoers
And those who drive the clouds
Whoever should desire the immediate - We hasten for him from it what We will to whom We intend. Then We have made for him Hell, which he will enter to burn, censured and banished
And who is better in religion than one who submits himself to Allah while being a doer of good and follows the religion of Abraham, inclining toward truth? And Allah took Abraham as an intimate friend
Say, "You will not be asked about what we committed, and we will not be asked about what you do
Then, to Allah belongs all praise - Lord of the heavens and Lord of the earth, Lord of the worlds
