1, Lambert 1907 automobile advertisement with the friction transmission featured in it 
2, Facebook has since turned these insights into precision advertising, the foundation of its business. 
3, It is an advertising technology (ad tech) tool that, throughout a platform, administrates the ads and their distribution 
4, Cookies can be used in online advertising as well, to remember your interests and show you related ads as you surf the web. 
5, Remember there is a famous AD copy is like this: believe you choice, wonderful everywhere. 
6, Boguan Advertisement has been committed to providing advertising services for the jewel and jade industry 
7, Good advertisement is a good promotion of products, it also likes any other aesthetical things which touch us innerly. 
8, In 1982, its ads proclaimed that it had "140 locations, coast to coast" 
9, He bought ads on Budget Travel, and he bought out Lonely Planet's home page for a week. 
10, With the examples of the car advertisements, this paper attempts to explore the features of the slogan of French advertisement by studying its succinctness, orality, humanity and vividness 
11, Ad executives say spending money on online content often is more important than buying ads 
12, Advertising regulation focuses heavily on the veracity of the claims and as such, there are often tighter restrictions placed around advertisements for food and healthcare products 
13, Lina Leandersson responded to an online advertisement seeking a 12-year-old boy or girl "good at running" 
14, Advertising will be placed in the Wall Street subway station and it will be wrapped around double-decker tour buses. 
15, No matter from which Angle, advertising creative affect communication effect this variable factors. 
16, A 1922 advertisement from a Scottish stove manufacturer for a multifuel stove 
17, The advertisements announced new health remedies as well as fresh foods and beverages 
18, If you're trying to make money from ads, you need to be creative in your ad placement or in the types of ads you have on your site. 
19, These ads are permitted from noon until 3 pm on school days and from 8:30 pm to 5 am every day 
20, You could check your ad history to see if the ads that attracted your attention supported their claims and offered useful information. 
21, However certain advertisers do not always transfer their intents directly, but in some indirect ways, and one of them is pun. 
22, Mondale borrowed the line from a hamburger commercial that had used the phrase to suggest that competing products shortchanged the consumer. 
23, Also known as profit-making commercial advertising or financial advertising, in terms of profits for the primary purpose of advertising. 
24, "The cost per revenue dollar of online ad systems is so much lower than" for offline advertising, he said. 
25, compared with other elements, the advertising creative advertising in relation to the success or failure of key elements. 
26, To promote products and build up the image in the minds of consumers, advertising is inevitable word "exaggerated. " 
27, Online advertising does not seem able to deliver the kind of revenue that old-fashioned subscription services did. The culprit? 
28, People have always been equivocal about advertising, worrying that it hoodwinks them into buying things they do not need. 
29, Apple will continue to allow outside ad services to place ads in apps, though such ads often redirect users to a Web site when clicked. 
30, It is at them that Michelob Light aims its ad with the slogan: "Who said you can't have it all? " 
31, Online advertising will pay for everything. As if click fraud is any kind of a threat. 
32, The ads you click don't just boost revenue for Google, they also tell it how much to charge the next advertiser. 
33, One of the earliest advertisements (1868) was for mulberry and fruit trees 
34, And they put advertising against it and linked from it to iTunes 
35, They decided to advertise for their new product on TV 
36, Advertisers once primarily bought ads on specific Web pages - a car AD on a car site 
37, 6cm high and therefore the largest glass vessel from Antiquity 
38, No wonder all over the world and become a collector of antiques and antique fans search for beloved antiquities itinerary. 
39, They That you spend all day dealing with antiques, antique, which caused very calm! 
40, Behind the hotel are a number of antique stores and in the evening, dozens of stalls appear and turn the street into an antique market. 
41, Panjiayuan antique seems to be going like the Tibetan treasure box collection room and gradually infiltrated into people's daily lives. 
42, To know whether the vase is an antique, it needs the appraisal of the experts 
43, At an antique shop, Basant and Vasant see an antique duck made of glass 
44, He is both an expert, and master in antique authentication. 
45, The famous collection of rare antiques is coming out next month 
46, A prominent art collector, he owned "a large collection of paintings by old masters and antique gems 
47, By US standards, a genuine antique must be at least 100 years old 
48, The SA Forum Application Interface occurs between a process and a library that implements the interface 
49, Oracle has released several Java Card platform specifications and is providing SDK tools for application development 
50, WayRay demonstrated its development platform ''True AR SDK'', which is created to allow others to build augmented reality apps for automobiles 
51, WebCenter Services includes Oracle ADF user interface components (called Taskflows) that can be embedded directly into ADF applications 
52, This paper discussed a software design of the onboard navigation system, using GPRS technology 
53, Thus, parsing a string of the grammar produces a sequence of rule applications 
54, The application design offers the possibility of using the graphic tools as well as ignoring many of them and using the program as integrated development environment 
55, When automating the testing of any large Java application, you are bound to run across custom controls. 
56, Jspx should not be confused with other technologies using the same name like Oracle Application Framework and XML JSP 
57, '''Oracle WebCenter''' is Oracle's portfolio of user engagement software products built on top of the JSF-based Oracle Application Development Framework 
58, Locomotive software was mainly divided into audio capture and compression module, file storage management module, wireless Ethernet data download module, MAX485 communication module; 
59, com released the KitchMe app for Google Glass, the first cooking application for Google Glass 
60, String interning is a common application of interning, where many strings with identical values are needed in the same program 
61, What are the recommended best practices for Java developers who are interested in using ROO framework as part of their software development process? 
62, In addition, 3rd party software developers could freely implement new applications for the Nokia 9210 Communicator and offer them for download by the users 
63, ''True AR SDK'' - an augmented reality development framework for third-party developers which allows building AR apps for cars 
64, Some apps are able to collect actual car prices around the world and select the best offers  
65, Generally speaking, every software development project has a group of testers and a group of developers 
66, It is possible to type directly from one's keyboard without the need to use web applications which implement an input method 
67, The architecture of applications, including dynamic Web applications, is often described in terms of tiers. 
68, Rational Web Developer is an easy-to-use IDE for visually constructing, testing, and deploying applications. 
69, Play with the sample application to see for yourself how much fun calculating any date can be with Joda. 
70, The network faults framework provides developers with an API that categorizes network exceptions passed to it by an application. 
71, Software development is about modeling the real world in code 
72, The program is notable for being the first steganography tool  
73, The base '''WebCenter Framework''' allows a user to embed portlets, ADF content, and customizable components in an Oracle ADF application 
74, You may also need signal conditioning equipment, depending on the specifications of your application. 
75, Your application is now ready to run and behave according to the coded logic 
76, Unlike most similar programs, it does not open a separate program window for the magnification but instead puts a movable magnifying glass on the screen 
77, Such client applications and services include Desktop Productivity Tools (spreadsheets, word processors, presentation software, etc 
78, During a 1912 Egyptian excavation, German archaeologist Ludwig Borchardt discovered the bust of Nefertiti, a 14th Century BC Egyptian queen. 
79, The silcrete found at archaeological sites was glossy with a fine grain and a reddish color. 
80, the traditional object of archaeological material is often a relic or relics of Foucault's archaeological objects is knowledge. 
81, The archaeological excavation at Ubina uncovered remains of structures, pottery, jewelry and coins 
82, The majority of evidence for Maya piercings comes from archaeological remains of jewelry found in tombs, such as labrets and ear spools 
83, During the archaeological excavations in Haqq?xl?q were found the bronze daggers, arrowheads, cookware and jewelry of the III-II millennium BC 
84, In China, archaeological evidence of medicine in Chinese dates back to the Bronze Age Shang Dynasty, based on seeds for herbalism and tools presumed to have been used for surgery 
85, archaeologists since then have made extensive archaeological discoveries, and unearthed many historical remains and cultural relics. 
86, Nearby, archaeological excavations have uncovered the remains of dwellings and stone tool workshops 
87, Archaeologists say they have dug up a woman skeleton dating to the 10th century B. C. in an ancient necropolis in the heart of Rome. 
88, Because the wood or bamboo handle was easy to rot, the complete bronze pi was not unearthed in the archaeological excavation before. 
89, Archaeologists also found a gatehouse and a royal building with a large amount of pottery shards at the ground floor. 
90, The archaeologists who made the original finds believed the markings to be similar in form to some characters used in the much later oracle bone script 
91, stone tools recovered alongside the skeletal remains were from archaeological horizons ranging from 50,000 to 190,000 years ago 
92, Foods found in archaeological excavations include diverse types of legumes, onions, and garlic. 
93, Last week, archaeologists discovered a large ancient ruins 
94, In the same hill other caves have yielded archaeological remains such as stone tools and food remnants, but no more skeletons 
95, A major archaeological find was made in the year 1863 when the British archaeologist Robert Bruce Foote discovered a stone implement from the Paleolithic Age inside a ballast pit 
96, Further, limited archaeological digs were organized in 1958 and 1971 to explore the edges of the graveyard 
97, a rare handled beaker is found during archaeological excavations at a bronze age burial cairn in the black mountains 
98, Pre-Roman archaeological discoveries include Bronze Age axes and jade jewelry 
99, The archaeological works revealed knapped stone tools from deposits that were dated using optical luminescence dating 
100, In the district was found an archaeological site of a former building on a hill 2000 m above sea level 
101, During the excavation, all artefacts were taken to laboratories for treatment and then put back to their original location. 
102, Significant archaeological collections of stone tools and numerous fossil animal specimens were also found at the site 
103, In 1961, the Danish archaeological team excavated approximately 30,000 stone implements from 122 paleolithic sites 
104, Publication of metal finds, especially weapons, tools and harnesses from several other Greek archaeological sites 
105, It was referred to as another great discovery after Chinese archaeology of Yin dynasty in Henan in archaeology last century. 
106, In addition, archaeologists also found a human polished stone axes and flint knives and other traces of human activity. 
107, After more than four years of underwater searching and digging, archaeologists today displayed the remains of a vanished Egyptian city. 
108, Machine vision and image recognition is one of the key technologies to improve the intelligent level of industrial robot. 
109, this in combination with the new castles turned out to much for the AI so the team decided to make a new AI from scratch! 
110, At least one area of experience or knowledge in search, natural language processing, data mining, machine learning, distributed computing. 
111, He has also developed AI algorithms for semi-autonomous systems with potential applications to semi-autonomous cars 
112, Creating a translation machine has long been seen as one of the toughest challenges in artificial intelligence. 
113, The artificial intelligence within the tool uses a deep convolutional neural network to recognize patterns of distinct subtypes 
114, Artificial Intelligence (or AI, for short) is the name given to any attempt to have computers gain attributes of the human mind. 
115, Are often used to simulate future technology that isn't available yet, particularly artificial intelligence. 
116, asimo , the world ' s most advanced humanoid robot - can also speak japanese as well as being able to walk upstairs and recognise voices. 
117, Face detection applications of a wide range of intelligent machines to achieve one of the important steps. 
118, Because AI lacks general intelligence, Shane is skeptical of efforts to power self-driving cars or to detect online hate speech using artificial intelligence 
119, Some question whether artificial intelligence, which always seems just a few years away, will ever work well enough. 
120, These abilities derive from something called machine learning, which is at the heart of many modern AI applications. 
121, Chess programming provides a foundation for developing more advanced forms of AI that are to be found in Go programs. 
122, Can be expected, a few years later, we see the car in the street are smart driving, driving test, and we no longer need to practice driving. 
123, Using artificial intelligence, the tool automatically records the institutional subscriptions each user has and searches for full-text versions of selected papers to which the user may have access 
124, Artificial intelligence was made more aggressive, allowing opponents to crash cars in accidents 
125, In other words, in most cases, artificial intelligence is a tool rather than a substitute for labor 
126, The next day, Jacky and the group run into a slave auction 
127, In 2014 Sotheby's Geneva featured Mavrommatis' gems in their November jewelry sale in an event the auction house titled "The Passion of Collecting" 
128, This on sale clinches a deal the record of maximum price of beneficent auction activity that the price achieves a company to organize. 
129, That means online bidders are unlikely to be the trade buyers and investors that crowd live sales. 
130, The sale drew thousands of bidders and fetched several record prices for several artists. 
131, Today the exceptionally rare automobile can fetch the better part of US$250,000 at auction 
132, 3 billion is up for sale in two auctions, one of the largest allotments so far this year. 
133, Longoria was the top celebrity donation-getter in Twitter's first ever celebrity charity auction, Twitchange, which she helped spearhead. 
134, After her death, seventeen items from her personal jewel collection were auctioned off at Christie's on April 17, 2012 
135, 62 million at a Bonhams car auction held in Carmel, California 
136, At that time it set a new world record for the highest price ever paid for an automobile at auction 
137, Also in June 2015, Apollo won the bidding during an auction for Saint-Gobain's Verallia glass bottle manufacturing unit for ?2 
138, Two GTX cars were completed before production ceased, with one selling for $220,000 at a Barrett-Jackson auction in 2012 
139, *On November 24, 2013 New Asia Pacific International Auction Ltd (Macau) held a special auction for Huang Yue's bird and flower and water ink paintings 
140, Typically, automobile auctioneers at dealer-only auctions and livestock auctioneers are known for their high-speed chants 
141, Rowland Ward's mounted heads and glass bird boxes are very collectible today in England, with several auction houses offering specialised sales each year 
142, The marathon weeklong auctions are unlike those in New York or London, where the two houses stage sales year round. 
143, It is also used for property auctions, and car boot sales 
144, The assets of National Glass were sold at auction during November 1908 
145, 78-carat Fancy Intense Pink diamond and, until the sale of the Sweet Josephine diamond in November 2015, it was the most expensive jewel ever sold at auction 
146, New York sold these slaves using slave markets, giving slaves to the highest bidder at an auction 
147, Dealers bid competitively in a multiple-price auction held every day at noon 
148, On June 1, 1856, he held another mock slave auction seeking enough contributions to purchase the freedom of a young woman named Sarah 
149, At a recent US sale organised by Julien's Auctions, approximately 35 per cent of items were snapped up by Asian buyers. 
150, Auctions have been used in slave markets throughout history until modern times in the post-Gaddafi era Libya 
151, It includes audio dialogs that feature synthesized speech, digitized audio, recognition of spoken and telephone tone dialing input, and recording of spoken input 
152, Individually, Rechshaid contributed vocal production, while Raisen was responsible for recording, Pro Tools engineering, additional vocals, synthesizers, and mixing 
153, The recording was all done to tape, and the band did not use editing software such as Pro Tools to "perfect" the recording 
154, When she walks into the studio one night at 7, she says she's been up since 5 a. m. and she will work until almost midnight. 
155, It's also the first compact camera from Nikon to shoot video at 1080p and provides a 'real' experience with stereo audio and HDMI video output 
156, Additional recording took place at Madhouse Studios in Miami, Florida 
157, It allows you to record, produce and edit music, voice and other audio 
158, 'Over My Head'' was recorded in-studio after a live concert commissioned by the Canadian Museum of Nature, in which music was blended with tape looped field recordings of birds 
159, The students inst take p good in recordings in the Accommerciingemyas recording studio. 
160, The recorder can be controlled to record audio via the microphone or streaming audio played on the sound card 
161, In September 1965, he oversaw Marc Bolan's first recording session, at Decca when he recorded "The Wizard" 
162, On recordings, how much preparation and arranging do you do before you go into the studio? Or it is mostly an outline of songs? 
163, His career began as a roadie and sound engineer for The Beach Boys on whose Summer in Paradise he worked as a recording engineer 
164, DJ Dahi wrote the song's chord melody, after which G?ransson was invited to the recording sessions 
165, We finished our record and it's being mastered right now 
166,  At the age of 7, under the supervision of her uncles, Brianna Perry made her first recording at the Poe Boy Music Group studios 
167, The cause of the death of the birds is determined as due to an outbreak of bird flu 
168, With a mortality rate of more than 50%, the bird flu outbreak in Asia is beginning to gain worldwide publicity. 
169, Investigation of his source of infection revealed contact with household chickens, which began dying around one week prior to symptom onset. 
170, Ironically, after years of concern about H5N1 bird flu, the new flu causing concern is a pig virus, of a family known as H1N1. 
171, AI virus genes have been thought to be the principal gene reservoir and the cause of changes of human influenza virus. 
172, In April, 2011, a strain of bird flu, H5N2, broke out in Oudtshoorn 
173, You could see an avian strain that would infect the poultry flocks, and then we would have no eggs for our vaccines. 
174, The latest outbreak occurred at a farm in the town of Takahashi in Okayama Prefecture, where at least 30 chickens died last week. 
175, Following an initial avian influenza A(H5N1) outbreak on a cock farm in the Republic of Korea , avian influenza spread to 14 other farms. 
176, A further health crisis, the Bird Flu Pandemic (H5N1) gained momentum from the late 90s, and led to the disposal of millions of rooster and other poultry 
177, Canadian Food Inspection Agency creates a programme for routine testing of poultry for avian influenza (bird flu), after British Columbia had to destroy 57,000 roosters 
178, Highly pathogenic avian influenza virus can be found inside and on the surface of eggs laid by infected birds. 
179, The latest detection of the often-fatal avian influenza strain pushes the total number of cases discovered in Vietnam to 68. 
180, The current H5N1 strain is a fast-mutating, highly pathogenic avian influenza virus (HPAI) found in multiple bird species 
181, The statement said the woman became ill after contact with dead poultry suspected of having the virus. 
182, China reports bird flu struck a poultry market in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa, prompting the culling of nearly 7,000 birds 
183, WHO says H5N1 virus is widespread in birds, particularly poultry which seems to be the source of the Asian infections. 
184, A bird flu virus has been found in a pair of wild cranes in the state of Michigan. 
185, January 16, 2007: "A new outbreak of virulent bird flu is confirmed in cock in northern Thailand -- the first such case in six months 
186, FAO reminded consumers that avian influenza is not a food-borne disease and that the bird flu virus is killed by the heat of normal cooking. 
187, That could mean bird flu will remain a dead end, infecting the occasional unlucky person but never turning into a full-blown pandemic. 
188, Reflecting on this sutra passage, we may infer that the bodhisattvas of that land do not advance from stage to stage. 
189, The person can express he/her faith through the act of taking refuge and the usual conversion require a recital of accepting the Triple Gems of Buddhism 
190, With Maitreya then took him to a certain heaven, the way the Buddhist myth unfolds in a typical way. 
191, Sacred Buddhist amulets are made within that religious schema, created and blessed in various temples in Thailand, many depicting Buddha with cocks in fighting stance, sacred within that religion 
192, Her books on Buddhism and Reincarnation include: The Boy Lama'', ''Reborn in the West'', ''Cave in the Snow'' and ''Why Buddhism 
193, wish-fulfilling jewel" in Japanese Buddhism, magic jewels of N?ga kings in Hindu mythology, and the pearl associations of Chinese dragons in Chinese mythology 
194, Boy George has credited his practice of Nichiren Buddhism and chanting Nam My?h? Renge Ky? for his newfound spiritual strength to remain sober 
195, At T? ??m, the temple of Buddhist protest leader Th?ch Tr? Quang, monks attempted to burn the coffin of a monk who had self-immolated recently 
196, The Buddhism aspect that is combined with these customs would be the burning of the incense and the offering of fruits as a sign of respect to the dead 
197, Buddha's enlightenment under the bodhi tree, under the bodhi tree Huineng chant in "Bodhi-tree. " 
198, Buddha continued to preach until the age of eighty, spreading the philosophy that man has the power to shape his own destiny. 
199, The monk W?nch'?k studied in China under Xuanzang and developed his interpretation of Yog?c?ra Buddhism derived from Xuanzang's New Yog?c?ra 
200, He travelled to China, where he studied Tangmi (Chinese Vajrayana Buddhism) under the monk Huiguo 
201, South Buddhists believe that Buddha Sakyamuni was born, Road, in this Nirvana, which, as the Buddha. 
202, Jewel imagery forms a central part of Buddhism: the triple-jewel represents 'Buddha', his teachings 'Dharma' and the spiritual community 'Shangha' 
203, S?n Buddhism, a Korean form of Chan Buddhism, began with the seventh century Silla monk P?mnang, who studied in China with the Fourth Patriarch of Chan Buddhism, Daoxin 
204, In South Korea, the ritual, called ''sugye'' (??), involves formally taking refuge in The Three Jewels of Buddhism: the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha, and accepting the five precepts 
205, King Ashoka embraced Buddhism after he was inspired by a monk named ?Nigrodha 
206, Toutuoxing was one of the most common means of practicing Buddhism in the early Buddhism. 
207, Tibetan Buddhism from the beginning to the post-Philip Tsongkhapa times, Tibetan society emerged in many denominations. 
208, 65 Ming's half brother Liu Ying converted to Buddhism 
209, China has the Buddhism but Buddha was an Indian Prince and Buddhism is nothing more than a split end of the Vedas. 
210,  Buddhism has been practiced in Japan since its official introduction in 552 CE according to the ''Nihon Shoki'' from Baekje, Korea by Buddhist monks 
211, Born in Malaysia and ordained as a monk by Master Chuk Mor () in Penang, he later went to Taiwan to study at Fo Guang Shan Institute of Chinese Buddhism 
212, There is documentation that monks living at Shaolin temple during the eighth century performed esoteric practices there such as mantra and dharani, and that these also influenced Korean Seon Buddhism 
213, In Buddhism  , the lad are encouraged to follow the faith while young 
214, Xuanzang says that Buddhism was brought to Central Asia by Trapusa and Bahalika (referring to Balkh) two merchants who offered food to the Buddha after his enlightenment 
215, David: Speaking of food, I am hungry. Let's go to the cafeteria 
216, The Pinnacle prides itself on its buffet breakfast, which is served in a large but rather characterless dining room. 
217, Company-owned restaurants have also closed for === Big Boy Restaurant Group === In 2018, Big Boy was sold to a group of Michigan investors and renamed Big Boy Restaurant Group 
218, Food is too expensive, prices have dropped, canteen should be an appropriate price adjustment. 
219, They were sitting in the corner of the cafeteria, as far away from where I sat as possible in the long room. 
220, Like in Texas, in a five-star hotel I go to the restaurant and there is a menu. On the left side is hamburgers, meat, chicken, fish, vegetarian 
221, The restaurant offers special seasonal food during the holidays 
222, In the restaurant industry, sommeliers are often present to make food pairing recommendations for the guest 
223, its refectory, with the adjoining church of presentation to the temple, was finished by 1679 
224, The cafe provides quick self-service at low prices 
225, The restaurant struck a chord with young urbanites and quickly became a dining destination that built a needed sense of community 
226, The catering services are constantly trying to innovation, adhering to the " fresh is best" the purpose, sincere service to every customer.
227, My only inconvenience was that the dining area was small, so one might have to wait a little bit for a free table. 
228, The cafeteria was noisy, the food was only so-so, but service was brisk and she could be in and out in fifteen minutes. 
229, Hotel Gault is home to Gault restaurant, a Montreal restaurant that serves breakfast, weekend brunch, and lunch. In-room dining is available 24 hours a day 
230, The chain snack enterprise being that the whole world is maximal owns MacDonald exceed quick 31000 dining halls, scatters in the whole world 121 countries sum area 
231, McDonalds and Kentucky Fried Chicken are called fast-food restaurants 
232, At the restaurant the menu is all in Japanese and the waitress was a bit frustrated trying to explain it to me. 
233, In 1992 the famous buffet was launched in Pizza Hut restaurants worldwide 
234, But the name of a restaurant won't necessarily tell you much about the kind of place it is or the food it serves. 
235, Gibontei, also known as the Forest Animal Restaurant, is the zoo's main restaurant 
236, since 2004, an Indian restaurant 'Little India' in a building formerly occupied by the Olde Cock Inn 
237, Chatswood has a wide variety of restaurants and cafes and is known as a major dining destination in the Lower North Shore of Sydney 
238, He has also operated a food cart called Yolk since 2011, and his restaurant Bird and Bear has been described as a sibling restaurant to Toast 
239, The Japanese Big Boy Restaurants do not offer the Big Boy hamburger or most other American Big Boy menu items, offering a distinct menu instead 
240, The dining room has a glass door leading to one of the property's three outdoor eating areas 
241, KFC is currently one of the largest businesses of the global fast food service industry 
242, Customer: Waiter, I've only got one piece of meat in my dish. Waiter: Just a moment, sir and I'll cut it in two. 
243, The area close to the train station has a lot of restaurants mainly offering Korean food 
244, After the meeting, we be to which le adjwen to the Rose Room of the hotel to a buffet dinner. 
245, some monasteries, boarding schools, and older universities refer to their cafeteria as a ''refectory'' 
246, At our local restaurant, customers get dessert on the house if they order a meal 
247, Maybe the dining hall needed to make sure everyone in dining hall felt comfortable and did not feel crowd. 
248, The cafeteria provided many kinds of dishes for us today 
249, The Cock Horse Pub ==Entertainment and dining== Hildenborough is home to several pubs, restaurants and cafes, including the refurbished Hilden Manor, the Flying Dutchman and the Half Moon 
250, A man went into a restaurant andsat down at one of the table. A waiter went up to him and gave him the menu. 
251, Please have meal at the canteen. Do not take food out of the canteen or eat at office. 
252, Hotel guests have their meals free, so they naturally go to the free dining rooms to have their meals 
253, It's only a small restaurant and yet it is always filled with ustomers 
254, Mo's in Lincoln City, Oregon '''Mo's Restaurants''' is an American restaurant chain located on the Oregon Coast and headquartered in Newport, Oregon 
255, Another eatery, the Battery Gardens restaurant, is located next to the United States Coast Guard Battery Building 
256, Manuel speaks to the cook in Portuguese and the cook tells the Captain: All the bottom half of him is gone, and he doesn't want the boy to see 
257, cooking is done both by people in their own dwellings and by professional cooks and chefs in restaurants and other food establishments 
258, He currently cooks the food at his own restaurant, and is a consulting chef at Rack & Soul 
259, Outside of music, Wong is a noted cook and food blogger 
260, The master cook and his boy (probably Hans Drier and Poppilman) had to do the job of the absent kitchen aids and dress the food for the table 
261, In the kitchen she faced being bullied by the cook and stared at by the kitchen boys who even boxed her ears 
262, Hussain travelled across the country, visiting food producers, and then returned to her kitchen to cook using ingredients found on her journeys 
263, Pulled from the ocean, or gathered farm fresh, this produce would be transformed by a local chef into a memorable dish fit for a king. 
264, Formerly the cook of the COWCOW, but left the ship on a journey to improve his skills 
265, The cruel master would beat the cook, an island boy who was an artist in the kitchen 
266, Fresh ingredients are expertly combined by the chefs to create dishes that explode with out-of-this-world flavors. 
267, She said she was a good cook, but the food she cooked is insipid 
268, He is a good cook and joins Rachel along her journey to help guide the six BeyRaiderz back to full strength 
269, On a long voyage, food became the centre of attention for the crew and a cook unable to produce food which was considered acceptable would very quickly become seriously unpopular 
270, Some chefs utilize fruit carving as a culinary technique 
271, The best chef in the world is the cook who's been with my family for 30 years. I eat at my mom's house ever day. 
272, Cantonese chef would consider it a culinary sin of the highest order to produce a dish that was overcooked or too heavily seasoned. 
273, The cook combined whipped cream, sugar, and vanilla to make a topping for the compote 
274, At first, I only did pastry, because the non-Chinese were not allowed to cook hot food, but I persuaded the head chef to let me cook. 
275, The chefs are given 1-3 mandatory ingredients, such as pig heads, jackfruit, and live catfish 
276, Other chefs suggest that the heating is unnecessary and in fact dries the fruit, spoiling its taste 
277, A mysteries chef named Louis enters her life when she tastes his food 
278, In a Mystery Box Challenge with a twist, the chefs will pick which fruits they will like to use in their dishes 
279, TSMC was one of the first big chipmakers to restore investment plans that had been curtailed by the downturn, and is expanding its R&D team. 
280, AMD Take the First Step Toward Heterogeneous Multicore Processors 
281, The co-founder of Intel was known for his 1965 principal which made possible the delivery of more powerful and lower costing semiconductor chips 
282, their objective is to provide standard debug protocols and standard interfaces from a system on a chip (SoC) to the debug tool 
283, The chip implements a full-duplex serial communications interface that enables the extension of an internal bus segment to one or more external physical devices 
284, MOS chips further increased in complexity at a rate predicted by Moore's law, leading to chips with hundreds of MOSFETs on a chip by the late 1960s 
285, In integrated circuit (IC) chips design, the verification is one of the most complex and time-consuming step in the chips design flow. 
286, FPGA got rapid development since its birth; it has become one of the most popular implementation media for digital circuit. 
287, The use of Altera Corporation FPGA chips, the design of a car taillight controller, to achieve a state of auto taillights display control. 
288, Toshiba is the world's third - largest maker of microchips and also owns the Westinghouse reactor design company . 
289, The MT8135 system-on-chip (SoC) for tablets announced in July, 2013 was the industry's first chip to implement the new ARM big 
290, TSMC's results come a day after Taiwan's UMC, the second biggest contract chipmaker, reported greatly improved results. 
291, Tesla also designed a self-driving computer chip that has been installed in its cars since March 2019 
292, I got a chance this week to see what computer chip maker Intel has up its sleeve in preparation for the next tech boom. 
293, These chips were SRAM memory chips often used to get new manufacturing processes debugged. 
294, And it would similarly take several years of further progress in Moore's Law, before improved chip manufacturing could fit all this into a few dense chips 
295, Chipmakers are in a better position than solar panel makers as many have long-term contracts at fixed prices to ensure supplies. 
296, However, chip designers are faced with a difficult challenge when trying to develop a ten million gate design from scratch. 
297, Due to technology push and application pull, the Chip Multiprocessors (CMP) have become the trend of the high performance microprocessors. 
298, Most chip makers keep multiple weeks of inventory of wafers on hand. 
299, Samsung is the world largest manufacturer of memory chips and Apple is one of its most important customers. 
300, in late 2020, chip designer amd released desktop microprocessors based on zen 3 codenamed "vermeer" to honor vermeer's beautiful art legacy 
301, The chip is the first Sun/Oracle SPARC chip to use dynamic threading and out-of-order execution 
302, TSMC also illustrates a corollary of Moore's Second Law: even the biggest chipmakers must keep expanding. 
303, inprocomm produced seven wireless chip designs in total, along with accompanying reference designs for pci, mini-pci and cardbus 
304, Schedule seasonal socializing for the period immediately after Christmas, rather than trying to jam in one more party before Christmas Day. 
305, And if our sentence is true then Santa does not exist, in which case the name "Santa" does not refer to any actual thing. 
306, In India, Christmas cakes are traditionally a fruit cake with many variants 
307, The Yule Lad arrive over the course of the last 13 nights before Christmas, beginning on 12 December 
308, It's Christmas Eve and Santa's getting ready to deliver presents to boys and girls all round the world. 
309, To me, Christmas means family and fun, snow and Santa Claus , and, of course, plenty of presents. 
310, In the West, the company annual party is always around the Christmas, right 
311, I decided that I was going to keep it a secret and give it to her as a surprise for Christmas. 
312, Scrooge hated Christmas and he refused his nephew's invitation for dinner on Christmas Day. 
313, Following their participation in a dress parade on Christmas Day, 30th Ohioans then celebrated the holiday with food and entertainment 
314, If one were to ask me what my favorite holidays are, number 1 would be a toss-up between Christmas and Thanksgiving. 
315, At the end of the next day, the boys finally realize the true meaning of Christmas and the time loop ends, leading into the day after Christmas 
316, The bait for carp fishing game is "cendol" ("sagu" flour with food attractant) * In Central Europe there is a strong connection between Christmas and carp fishing 
317, Stewart: I said Merry Christmas! Don't you know that Christmas is almost here? 
318, Other traditional foods are eaten at ''F?rste Juledags Frokost'', a Christmas Day luncheon where the household serves all available delicacies in a grand buffet 
319, Father Christmas is a very kind hearted man. He lands on top of each house all over the world and climbs down the chimney. 
320, Annually during Christmas time, the latter is decorated in a "Christmas Wonderland" theme, and free skating time is offered in exchange for a donation to the food bank 
321, At each stop it is traditional for families to leave Santa mince pies and alcohol. Will having both of these treats make Santa feel sleeper? 
322, When my mother and I stayed in America, we were invited by one of my mother's friends to have Christmas with an American family. 
323, Some parents even take a bite out of the cookie and write a thank-you note from Mr. Claus for the kids to find the next day. 
324, Santa Claus is an old, fat, jolly man wearing a red coat and trousers with white cuffs and collar, also wears black leather belt and boots. 
325, Christmas is only as commercial as you make it. You choose what Christmas means to you. 
326, Early on the night before Christmas (Christmas Eve), children are encouraged to go to bed early if they expect Santa to come. 
327, But all the children believe it because the tradition of Santa Claus gives children good dreams in their childhood. 
328, 'You expect Christmas presents at Christmas, that's why he referred to Christmas, ' he offered, a little bizarrely. 
329, Every year at Chinese New Year, people have to do many things. Clean the house, wash clothes, clean the windows. 
330, One morning I arrived early at work and went into the bank lobby where the Negro Porter was mopping. 
331, There are ten boys in the classroom . Three of them are cleaning the classroom. The rest are. 
332, Before moving in to the property the Munro's had to clean the internal spaces of bird droppings before installing their furniture 
333, Housekeeping involves cooking, washing dishes and clothes, and sweeping and cleaning. 
334, Clean your room! Take a bath! Wash your hand! Why do you think adults care so much about cleanliness? 
335, They can clean their rooms, wash dishes, sweep, mop, dust, wash the car 
336, You could help do some cleaning at home on Sundays. 
337, Focus on cleaning the workshop, corridors, staircases, and other public areas of health, to carry out cleaning work. 
338, before work ready to cleaning the bathroom basic cleaning tools and cleaning items, "was cleaning the sign" . 
339, On arriving at school, the boy began to do cleaning. 
340, Now let's divide the work; Group one and Group Two are to sweep the floor with ours to clean the windows and doors. 
341, Many students are doing the cleaning. Some are sweeping the floor and others are cleaning the windows. 
342, First of all, I put the dishcloth bubble in the water out and began to twist dry brush table, chair and desk, brush after. 
343, To demonstrate how difficult it was to clean the mirrors, she asked the custodian to clean one of the mirrors. 
344, All the students are doing some cleaning. Some are sweeping the floor, others are cleaning the windows. 
345, Smith: We're doing some heavy house-cleaning at home tomorrow, and my wife needs me to help with the attic and the garage. 
346, I can do a lot kinds of housework such as sweeping the floor , cleaning tables and windows and so on. 
347, Several chores, such as mopping the kitchen, vacuuming the living room, and helping prepare meals, are rotated among the boys 
348, They can perform simple tasks like polishing the floor and wiping the windows 
349, For example, cleaning time, he cleaned the blackboard, will help you to clean the corridor. 
350, The children are cleaning the classroom . Some are sweeping the floor , others are cleaning the window . 
351, I wipe glass and the elder sister wipe table clean, the mother washes a quilt, and father drags along ground. 
352, A skillful janitor can clean windows perfectly with just a bucket of hot soapy water and a squeegee. 
353, Sweeping, mopping the floor, cleaning the table, wash, one thing will not fal 
354, they were hard at it with brooms and mops 
355, By Wednesday this week, those things were still on my list: dust, sweep, mop, vacuum, and clean the bathrooms. 
356, A car wash CCTV camera recorded him cleaning the car for more than two hours 
357, But the fact that the Anglo-Australian miner is weighing a bid at all suggests it has emerged from its post-Alcan funk. 
358, The company's founder had even sold Path?'s name and "rooster" trademark to other companies in return for a mere 2 percent of revenues generated by them 
359, Alico will give it a presence in 64 countries, up from 17 now, taking its non-American revenue from 15% of the total to 40%. 
360, Since the company was originally formed by the merger of four companies, so each ring is a symbol of the company. 
361, The action is often aided by the investment banks which are in charge of the merged departments. 
362, Has your name ever been changed, or have you purchased or merged with any other practice or business? 
363, Several small businesses consolidated to fomp3 a large powerful company 
364, 'The last three years activism really worked here, ' Icahn said. 'If it hadn't been separated I don't think you could have done this deal. ' 
365, Oracle took ownership of Java when it bought Sun Microsystems in 2010 and it has been battling with Google in the courts ever since. 
366, The firm's recent acquisition of Medstory, a vertical-search engine focusing on health care, has given it a boost in this area. 
367, Yahoo liked it so much that it bought the company and used the technology as the basis for its new mail service. 
368, The Rootes Group had taken on the name Chrysler UK after its takeover by the American car giant Chrysler, which had also taken over French carmaker Simca 
369, Another of our holdings has snapped up a small competitor that went bust this year. 
370, For its part, BHP Billiton sees Potash Corp as one of the few takeover targets that would make a difference to its long-term growth. 
371, It negotiated a strategic takeover by Packard, a smaller but less financially troubled car manufacturer 
372, After Oracle's acquisition of PeopleSoft in 2005, Mahbod became the Vice President of Organizational Development at Chiron Corporation 
373, the business maintained operations until 1945, when it was bought out by scrace's brewery in southampton and stopped production 
374, No one is saying it is easy: finding and executing the right corporate purchases is an art, and requires lots of luck. 
375, Warren Buffett has blasted the controversial takeover of Cadbury by Kraft, and revealed that he would block the deal if he could. 
376, Through a series of small acquisitions since that year, the company has steadily become a force to be reckoned with. 
377, Murchison itself tried to forge a merger with Midwest at time of the Sinosteel bid 
378, The meeting ended on a sour note with several people walking out. 
379, An international Conference on White Slave Traffic was held in 1921, attended by the 34 countries that ratified the 1901 and 1904 conventions 
380, The result of this meeting was that some departments provided some solutions for the crisis. 
381, The duo has shared their experiences at the American String Teachers Association conventions, the International Festival of Women Composers, and other important meetings 
382, The Audit Committee convenes meetings at least twice a year 
383, But he felt it was more realistic to say that they were going to undertake a round of consultations between the two sessions. 
384, Pachauri said although negotiations had not moved far and many leaders are playing down expectations, he has not given up on an agreement. 
385, Hamas did not allow Fatah delegates from Gaza to attend the congress, although they were able to vote by telephone. 
386, It's easy to have terrific meeting diminished in some way by an oversight on a small logistical detail. 
387, The atmosphere in the meeting was getting more and more tense. 
388, Feelings ran high, and Smyth called a noon meeting on 16 June outside the Liverpool Exchange 
389, The partnership then evolved to become the River Crane Management Forum (RCMF), which had its first meeting the next June 
390, This would end on the date that Congress adjourns its annual session, generally no later than noon on January 3 
391, Cock Lorel is credited with having held a meeting with the leader of the Egyptians, Giles Hather, at their base at The Devils Arse Apeak in Derbyshire 
392, Notable delegates included:  The Constitutional Convention met at midday on Wednesday, May 4, 1853, at the State House in Boston 
393, In 2011, on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of Martin Luther's journey to Rome, the German Historical Institute in Rome organized a conference 
394, In 1976, the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History met in Chicago and held a session on ''The Slave Community'' 
395, The IMF estimates that COVID has cost nearly 14 trillion dollars 
396, President Donald Trump has ordered meat processing plants ravaged by COVID 19 to reopen 
397, Without the mask, there's COVID for you, COVID for me,  
398, Passengers found not to have COVID-19 symptoms were transferred to ''Rotterdam'' to reduce the spread of infection during ''Zaandam''s return journey to Fort Lauderdale, Florida 
399, March 25 ? A 17-year-old boy in Lancaster, California died of COVID-19 after being denied health care because he did not have health insurance 
400, Isolation and Identification of a Novel Coronavirus from Patients with SARS 
401, On May 6th, 2021,Governor Tim Walz announced that COVID-19 restrictions would end on May 28th of 2021, and the mask mandate would be lifted July 1st of 2021 
402, covid-19 is also considered to affect low-income immigrants, who may have higher risk of exposure, misinformation, and be hesitant to access care 
403, Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the awards night, which was slated on July 5 and to be hosted by Boy Abunda, was cancelled 
404, During the COVID-19 pandemic, Cramer introduced legislation to ban vaccine and mask mandates 
405, Due to COVID-19 pandemic in India, the Roadies Journey was paused and everyone were sent home 
406, COVID pandemic shut down our industry in 2020 
407, New South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian confirmed that a seven-year-old boy had tested positive for COVID-19, and the school was closed 
408, Properly fitted, masks like these can provide better protection from the particles that carry COVID 
409, Four passengers and crew died of COVID-19 during or after that voyage 
410, Of course, concerns and restrictions related to COVID have put a damper on that 
411, But with threats of new COVID variants nothing could be less certain. 
412, Like other New York City nightlife venues, The Cock shut down temporarily during the COVID-19 pandemic 
413, Identification and molecular cloning and sequence analysis of a novel coronavirus from patients with SARS by RT-PCR 
414, A recent international increase in COVID cases has only made things more complicated 
415, Lad died on 30 April 2021 due to the COVID-19 at the age of 34 
416, The great journey then need to be stop as the league was being cancelled due to pandemic COVID-19 
417, The boy tested negative for COVID-19 but several suspected cases were already reported in various parts of the country 
418, America cancelled a string of shows in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic 
419, They then attached the car to a crane with duct tape 
420, The tall, wide construction of the building, containing an open space lacking support columns, reflects the desire to implement the crane into the company's manufacturing process 
421, Thrust collars can be used on rolling mills, which makes changing the rolls much easier than other methods, and frees up crane time because only hand tools are required 
422, The electricity was used to drive individual machine tools in the workshops and even provided power for the overhead travelling cranes which could lift up to 27 tonnes 
423, A giant barge crane, the ''Left Coast Lifter'', was used to place the 28 main deck box structures 
424, As noon on 29 October approached, the crane was ready for another lift, this time with buoyancy being added by blowing water out of the flooded Engine Room 
425, One of the retreating jobs was to dismantle the lattice jib of a crawler mounted mobile crane. 
426, There was a heavy wind gust at the time, and construction workers were securing the crane when it veered into a 12th-story glass panel, cracking it 
427, The wrecking crane and tool car are listed in the '''National Register of Historic Places 
428, As night falls, a crane hoists a black car out of the lake 
429, Moore Equipment Company's main work before the war was on tractors, cranes, trucks, bulldozers, power winches, road scrapers and tools 
430, The absolute maximum-moment of a crane girder is usually calculated with expressions provided by handbook. 
431, Nine shore and yard cranes (3 to 35 tons), 6 mobile cranes (5 to 25 tons), 8 standard and 30 small-masted forklifts are also available 
432, Construction equipment includes cranes, concrete mixers, concrete pumps, cherry pickers and an assortment of power tools 
433, It remained here for almost a century where its employees worked alongside a 10-ton traveling crane and power tools for cutting and punching to operate the steelwork and blacksmith facilities 
434, The crane lifted the car up in the air with him still inside, waving his arms around for the marshalls to put him back down 
435, All cranes will be equipped with a functional weight indicator on the main hoist and a boom angle indicator, both visible by the operator. 
436, '''''Elvis''''' is the nickname of Erickson S-64 Air-Crane, tail number ''OB-2081-P (N179AC)'', which has gained fame in Australia as a highly visible and valuable tool in bushfire suppression 
437, '''Reach For The Sky''' Stretch,a mobile crane, is going to replace an ac on the top of a tall building, with a little help from another crane, Little Brother 
438, its showed people using cranes, mechanical hoists and their hands to remove slabs of concrete and steel. 
439, Before bringing the crane to the location, screw jacks were used to shore up the underground garage roof to hold the crane's weight 
440, an overhead traveling crane allowed 16 railroad cars to be unloaded and loaded simultaneously 
441, During construction, a vibrating tool suspended from a crane penetrates to the design depth by means of its own weight and vibrations 
442, The winch spun quickly, and the crane raised its arm into the sky; nobody had believed that a crane with such a long arm could be built. 
443, ''Cherry picker''' may also refer to: * An  crane, a cantilevered tool for installing or removing the engine block from a vehicle * Glenbuck Cherrypickers F 
444, It also makes a handy hook for cranes for removing stopped cars from dangerous positions on the circuit 
445, the system consists of two overhead bridge cranes, which support two 50-ton trolley hoists, and a Mobile Tool Platform (MTP) 
446, Becoming TTC C-1, the crane car is today at the Halton County Radial Railway museum 
447, But each morning the little rooster began to crow very early. 
448, Steady the smoke of the half-deserted village, A dog barks somewhere in the deep lanes, A cock crows at the top of the mulberry tree 
449, The crow of Ayam Ketawa cocks has an unusual similarity to a human laugh 
450, The flock, which had been abandoned by their former owner, prowled the streets in a pack and would begin crowing at 0400 BST each morning. 
451, When the cock crowed in the morning, it attracted a fox that made friendly overtures and tried to lure the bird down 
452, And because their internal clocks are sometimes set a bit early, some roosters begin crowing well before sunrise. 
453, Discovery Channel covered the video explaining how roosters crow for such a long duration 
454, the cock is the bird whose crow causes the world to arise, while the trumpet sounds "Reveille" 
455, The tenants were then obliged to wait there until a cock crowed three times, at which point they were dismissed 
456, A rooster's crowing is a loud and sometimes shrill call and sends a territorial signal to other roosters 
457, It is pretty sleepy, but it does not stop even if the cock crows 
458, The cock starts to crow when six to seven months old 
459, Maurice the rooster crows at dawn 
460, A cock began to crow, and it was strange to hear it in a crowded town 
461, The rooster woke the others up early every morning with his loud crowing 
462, The bird thus faces the direction of the sunrise, like the rooster crowing at the break of dawn 
463, At that time, cocks always cry at noontime and midnight. 
464, Like all birds, roosters call in a daily cycle determined by circadian rhythms 
465, When they were sleeping in the same bed one night, they heard a rooster's crow at midnight 
466, A rooster that flaunts the most basic rules of neighborhood etiquette by crowing every morning before sunrise 
467, The servants of the inner and outer quarters and the concubines all rise at the first crow of the cock 
468, From now on, you will only crow at dawn, not all day and night 
469, With bags held high or balanced on bamboo poles, they choked the entrances to the cars, jostling for a prime spot on board. 
470, At the peak of the crisis, the Mercier Bridge and routes 132, 138 and 207 were all blocked, creating substantial disruption to traffic 
471, Motor cars are increasing in number, to the extent of causing occasional traffic jams known locally as "the rush minute" 
472, Roads were blocked by toppled trees and overturned cars 
473, After heavy rain in January 2013 the flooded river partially washed away the single-lane road bridge that carries , closing the only through road on the West Coast 
474, One day, when you get on a bus but there are many people crowded, what should you do? 
475, A heavy reliance on automobiles increases traffic throughout the city as well as automobile crashes, pedestrian injuries, and air pollution 
476, the growing number of personal automobile also means traffic jams are a common urban issue 
477, This hall of 600 square meters, the sea of people, squeezing the number of people do not know. 
478, The police of Andhra Pradesh were confronted with massive traffic jams when they tried to implement relief and rescue operations 
479, The presence of motorbikes, trucks, and cars created major traffic jams and disruption in the Wellington Central Business District 
480, It is open to automobile traffic despite its heavy pedestrian traffic 
481, The Road which runs through Nedumangadu is also used by some commuters due to heavy traffic congestion in the 2 main roads particularly during peak hours 
482, As his car entered the outlying streets of Tel Aviv, it slowed down on account of heavy traffic 
483, Roads were clogged as people flocked to the coast and to holiday resorts throughout the country 
484, The traffic jam in this narrow road is usually during the peak hours, and sometimes has to wait for a long time before able to get out. 
485, That's true. You may find crowds of people on the train , at the shopping mall, or even in the street, almost everywhere. 
486, The result is what many consider to have been the worst traffic jam to ever have occurred in Sussex County 
487, Driving during the midday is usually slow and demanding due to dense traffic, frequent traffic jams, and street renovation programs 
488, I cannot beat the crowds at the shopping mall on a Saturday. 
489, He became caught in a three-hour traffic jam because Highway Bridge (on which he traveled) could not handle the traffic 
490, The cars move through the traffic jam: the density of cars increases in the middle of it 
491, In rush-hour, cars were lined up bumper to bumper on every road. Everyone is afraid of being late for work. 
492, Jakarta also has one of the worst traffic jams in the world 
493, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, adjacent to the Eldon Square shopping centre, is awash with people. 
494, Summer dachas are being converted into year-round residences, and with the proliferation of automobiles there is heavy traffic congestion 
495, Frustration over traffic congestion and diversion due to the bridge and road blocks were occasionally expressed publicly 
496, Bicycle traffic is heavy usually around morning and noon times around DeAnza College 
497, Imagine that a car has broken down in the vicinity of the roundabout, and is disrupting the traffic flow, causing cars to take different routes or creating a traffic jam 
498, At this time when the rush hour, many pedestrians and vehicles to be "sticky" on the road. 
499, We were packed like sardines in a train that became struck in a tunnel for nearly half an hour. 
500, The couples danced one unlearned dance and a team dance to songs from some of the most popular lad bands and girl groups throughout history 
501, a form of dancing in which dancers slam into one another; normally performed to punk rock. 
502, The modern Yavapai take part in several dances and singing, such as the Apache Sunrise Dance and the Bird Singing and Dancing of the Mojave people 
503, This was a dance where the participants would quite literally just strut around like a turkey, in circles around one another. 
504, Many boys and girls in countries where belly dancing is popular will learn how to do it when they are young 
505, The music video shows the boys spending a day having fun as the name of the suggests "Ko Ko Bop" meaning fun dancing 
506, Propp, for instance, described her dance at the court as some sort of "ritual dance": she waves her arms and forests and lakes appear, and flocks of birds fly about 
507, An accomplished ballet dancer, she did not miss a single beat. 
508, dancers of ethnic dance are dressed up in bright dancing costumes, each a gauze fan in hand. 
509, They go into a dance with each other, that gets some other types of bird involved into dancing too 
510, The Latin dance is an artistic with very strong skill , displays the difficult type movement project, has high artistic ornamental. 
511, Latin dancing can be a great way to improve your Spanish and learn more about Latin culture through music and dance. 
512, She performs a sensual dance which brings a smile to all the housemates 
513, At the Denishawn Dance School, Graham worked very hard to improve her ability to dance 
514, This wouldn't be the best time for her to start her dancing career. 
515, He seemed to be doing some strange sort of dance, because he kept thrashing the air around his head with his arms. 
516, Sohrab is being kept at Assef's house as a dancing lad 
517, This dance is always performed to make amusement by village lads in procession at festivals 
518, Different types of dance for you: Chinese Dance, Belly Dance, Latin, Indian Dance, Hot Dance, try one of your favourites. 
519, Dance: There are many styles to choose from, everything from smooth country line dancing to hot Latin dancing. 
520, The choreography mixes swing dancing and acrobatics with the ballet influence 
521, His younger brother Gus (Dick) was a ballet dancer and choreographer 
522, The dance describe ''Klono Sewandono'' the king of Ponorogo on his journey to Kediri to seek the hands of Princess Songgo Langit 
523, The dance performance done by a single boy is known as Gotipua dance 
524, The dance circle was awhirl with color as each dancer spun and jumped to show off his athletic skills. 
525, It was at this school though that she learnt a great deal from classes in tap, jazz dancing and Gymnastics. 
526, Latin dance five dance has each style, graceful, exactly the rumba the lively, samba passion, cowboy's funny and bullfighting strong . 
527, The ease and pace of his turns him in the line of great Russian dancers 
528, The next dance comes and you find yourself dancing with each guest until you have completely circulated through all of your invited guests. 
529, There I trained in tap, jazz, ballet, modern and street dance 
530, Both a lively here tap, and a dignified luxuriant ballet, and dynamic jazz dance and modern dance. 
531, This dance spreads to today from then on. Due to the total exposed belly while dancing, It is called " belly dance . " as well. 
532, There's ballroom dancing, disco, tap , jazz. . . and tango. Tango sounds interesting, isn't it from Argentina? 
533, The 9-dance division consists of American-style smooth waltz, tango, foxtrot, Viennese waltz and rhythm cha cha, rumba, East Coast swing, bolero, and mambo 
534, It also serves as a preliminary warm up dance, without melody, to enable the dancer to loosen their body, journey away from distractions and towards single-minded focus 
535, Today, choreography is an essential component of many performing arts 
536, ''The Wild Boy Dance Contest'' is one of the many dance competitions created by ''Eat Bulaga 
537, In the United States the most popular form of folk dancing since the earliest days has been square-dancing. 
538, Entity Data Model Wizard in Visual Studio initially generates a one-to-one (1:1) mapping between the database schema and the conceptual schema in most of the cases 
539, The users of database search are typically developers or database administrators 
540, The changes made to the database are reflected in the Oracle Coherence cache 
541, To implement locking, SQL Server contains the ''Lock Manager'' 
542, The results are available online via the WIZARD database 
543, Throwing hardware at a problem is often the first thought, especially because databases are resource hogs. 
544, Used to define a new mining model (including training) or to drop an existing mining model from a database. 
545, Microsoft Access, the company's most popular database tool at the time, was expanded for its Office 2000 release to incorporate using Microsoft Desktop Engine as its back-end data store 
546, This information is made available through an online database containing the latest fuel consumption and emissions data for new cars 
547, Currently, BIND includes a data specification, a database and associated data mining and visualization tools 
548, Microsoft SQL Server (version 2016) implements temporal tables with 
549, '''LibreOffice Base''' is a free and open-source database development and administration tool for relational database management systems that is part of the LibreOffice office suite 
550, The directorate is in charge of the National Databases Register, an organized tool that is used in order to understand and control the data bases that circulate throughout the country 
551, Relational databases have often replaced legacy hierarchical databases and network databases, because RDBMS were easier to implement and administer 
552, It returns a string with backslashes before characters that need to be escaped in database queries, etc 
553, These were held in thousands of columns within hundreds of separate tables, within an Oracle database 
554, Besides, database search is not designed for relevance ranking, fuzzy search or multiple keywords 
555, The databases currently contain about 55 GB of data and there are three specialised spatial analysis tools currently available 
556, Relational databases like Oracle and MySQL have mechanisms that can be used to keep the availability (of the database) very high 
557, The company maintains a database to match up prospective sellers and buyers of the cars 
558, It is possible to interact with the database using the same tools used to interact with traditional MySQL database setups. 
559, The most common reasons cited for choosing MySQL as a database server include "it's easy to use" and "it's free. " 
560, DBD implementations exist for proprietary products such as IBM DB2, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle and for free-software databases such as SQLite, PostgreSQL, Firebird and MySQL 
561, Hammond is the founder and owner of the first privately owned automobile website Carlist is the longest running used car database, since 1986, even prior to the internet 
562, Objectivity/DB, for instance, implements named one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many named relationships that can cross databases 
563, The same idea holds in a relational database, and the column used to make the link is referred to as a key column. 
564, In an Oracle Database system, the term "schema" has a slightly different connotation 
565, The database linked the car plate to the home address of the driver 
566, Manuel says that the plant is polluting the environment, and its environment protections have been used since the 1950s 
567, Industrial pollution reduced the fish stock, but it has been recovering in the 21st century, aided by work from the Environment Agency 
568, More people have put increased strain on the islands' water supply, sewerage and waste disposal, not to mention its fragile wildlife. 
569, The Ministry also works to limit and reduce the negative effects of plastic bags on the environment in Jordan and preserve forest and reserves 
570, The golden-rumped elephant shrew is classified as endangered largely due to a fragmented forest environment and anthropogenic factors 
571, This policy serves to regulate pollution while accounting for unmeasured costs placed by automobiles on the environment 
572, It is the sweeping generalization that the use of recyclables does not cause pollution. 
573, The deposits preserve a transitional river or stream environments near the coast and preserves fossils of a mangrove forest ecosystem 
574, Hence, the issue of waste pollution needs to be addressed as one of the priorities that demand social efforts. 
575, The open-hearth furnaces of the steel mill created large amounts of dust and other pollution 
576, The Vikos?Ao?s National Park preserves one of the richest mountain and forest ecosystems in terms of wildlife diversity in Greece 
577, The cobalt would have maximized the environmental damage from radioactive fallout 
578, Active mobility reduces air and noise pollution by substituting for cars that produce greenhouse gases and noise, benefiting the environment and urban ecosystems 
579, Natural grassland is rationally utilized and the active grassland ecological protection is effective. 
580, environmental pollution is increasing drastically due to large-scale deforestation and increase in automobile use 
581, of combustion coal had seriously polluted atmospheric environment on winter, and offered evidence for atmospheric pollution treatment. 
582, Prolonged oil production has resulted in significant oil pollution along the Caribbean coast 
583, In particular, it can be used to understand the fate of environmental pollutants and how particular ecosystems respond to climate change 
584, He explains that humans have caused harm to the environment with their excessive consumption through activity such as deforestation, endangerment of species and pollution 
585, Gold and tin mining upriver are affecting the ecology of the region by destroying fish and bird habitat 
586, An air pollutant is a substance in the air that can have adverse effects on humans and the ecosystem   
587, The principal ecosystems consist of varied vegetation, from lowland jungle, temperate forest and agricultural land, although many forests here have suffered damage 
588, If you over-log an area, there are no roots left to hold the soil together, which leads to erosion. 
589, The wetland reserve is run by the Royal Forest and Bird Society with ongoing efforts to reduce human impact on the environment and to restore damaged areas 
590, the IPCC argues that the traditional use of wood in cook stoves and open fires produces pollutants, which can lead to severe health and environmental consequences 
591, According to the German environment agency, diesel cars have a 39% share in German urban nitrogen dioxide pollution levels 
592, '''Forest City''' is a project initiated in China to fight environmental pollution 
593, Every tourist destination around Thailand started manifesting environmental degradation, which includes the production of wastewater, solid waste, and other pollutants 
594, Inorganic contaminants like heavy metals (toxic metals including mercury, cadmium, and lead) are released into the environment via industrial leaks and automobile waste 
595, Air pollution has been a primary environmental problem in city. The monitoring of air pollution also presses for resolving. 
596, Lead smelters with little pollution controls contribute to several environmental problems, especially raised blood lead levels in the surrounding population 
597, Environmental issues include sewage pollution into Valencia Lake, oil and urban pollution of Maracaibo Lake, deforestation, soil degradation, and urban and industrial pollution, especially along the Caribbean shore 
598, The causes of these environmental issues are toxic contamination, eutrophication (low oxygen due to excess nutrients), and near shore habitat changes 
599, Forest conservation involves the upkeep of the natural resources within a forest that are beneficial for both humans and the ecosystem 
600, They are also seen as environmental bellwethers, with declines in frog populations often viewed as early warning signs of environmental damage 
601, Environmental Protection Agency estimates of average passenger car emissions in the United States for April 2000 Component Emission Rate Annual pollution emitted Hydrocarbons 2 
602, Conservation protection and scientific studies of the ecology of Vietnam, particularly in the protected forest areas, have been given priority attention by the Government of Vietnam 
603, the initial Aesopic fable of the Cock and the Horses is expanded upon in a way that parallels the use of a biblical quotation to initiate a sermon 
604, Pelagia, who was well known for telling great fairy tales, sat by the stove and began to tell him the story of ''Scarlet Flower'' 
605, The mountain is referred to as Slieve-na-Mon in a fairy tale called "The Giant and the Birds" from "The Boy Who Knew What The Birds Said" by Padraic Colum (1918) 
606, A fourth myth portrays the Suwa deity appointing an eight-year-old boy to become his priest and physical 'body' 
607, Abraxas seen with a chicken's head The mythological basilisk or cockatrice is depicted as a reptile-like creature with the upper body of a rooster 
608, the content may be the fable story , may be the fairy talestory , may be the idiom story. 
609, This boy was called Fionn Mac Cumhail (Fin McCool) and went on to become one of the most heroic leaders in Gaelic mythology 
610, In Norse mythology, the rooster represented salvation from the powers of darkness when it announced dawn and sunrise 
611, As a boy Alexander "loved all the world's mythologies" 
612, It was prettily devised of Aesop: the fly sat upon the axle-tree of the chariot wheel and said: "What a dust do I raise? " 
613, '''The Fair Fiorita''' is an Italian fairy tale collected by Thomas Frederick Crane in ''Italian Popular Tales'' 
614, In the ancient Aesop's Fable, for example, a fox keeps leaping for the grapes up in the vines and can't reach them. 
615, In the original fable, the wolf simply decides that letting the crane live is reward enough, and the crane goes without payment 
616, Like Aesop's fables, and of course not. though the fox in the story. 
617, In another myth, the god is said to have chosen an eight-year-old boy to become his priest (?, ''h?ri'' 
618, Joseph Jacobs published the tale as ''The Lad with the Goat-Skin'' in his ''Celtic Fairy Tales'' 
619, (which means little lad of Heaven) in Japanese mythology is the third son of Amaterasu 
620, Among Aesop's Fables are The Wolf and the Crane and The Fox and the Stork 
621, To '''cry wolf''' means to raise a false alarm, derived from the fable ''The Boy Who Cried Wolf'' 
622, Keeping with this genre, Levine also wrote a picture book, ''Betsy Who Cried Wolf'', adapted from Aesop's fable of ''The Boy Who Cried Wolf'' 
623, In another version of the myth, Orpheus travels to Aornum in Thesprotia, Epirus to an old oracle for the dead 
624, The fable of the fox deciding that the grapes he couldn't reach were sour is an example. 
625, Likewise, where the attempt to avoid an oracle is the very thing that enables it to happen is common to many Greek myths 
626, The story of the Kitchen God is a household Chinese fable. 
627, The first story was Aesop's fable The Tortoise and the Hare 
628, Crane mythology is widely spread and can be found in areas such as India, the Aegean, South Arabia, China, Korea, Japan, and North America 
629, Pieces were often decorated with jewels, usually imitations in enamel or glass in surviving pieces, and the multicoloured roundels in many of the backgrounds can be understood as imitation gems 
630, Don't buy the pirated books. There are many mistakes in spelling. What's more, it's just against law to buy them. 
631, Five hundred works were seized, including copies of paintings by Matisse, Magritte and Fontana. 
632, His trade prior to the military was selling imitation jewelry 
633, The tourists were shanghaied into buying expensive fakes 
634, After they have identified what they are after, the corresponding fake is produced. 
635, He fobbed this painting off on me as a genuine Van Gogh, but I later found out that it was a fake. 
636, With the market below the line , the phenomenon that sells fake exists all the time on the net, and the amount is not little still. 
637, The man reportedly went into a jewelry store and tried to swap out the gem for a fake one. 
638, Pirated digital copies of movies and music show up in the most remote parts of the world. 
639, The illicit copy cost about five pence - less even than my miserly royalty 
640, The swindler did a snow job on the experienceless shop assistant and sold all his fakes to her. 
641, Beware of reproductions, replicas and counterfeits when shopping for collectibles, jewelry, sunglasses, fragrances and handbags. 
642, guessed that the bag on the right is the real Louis Vuitton, good for you. But it's easy to be fooled by a fake, like the one on the left. 
643, AT first he believed the painting was an original by Harris, but by careful observATion he found out thAT it was a forgery. 
644, The picture, for which he paid an enormous amount of money, was a forgery 
645, These paintings have been proved to be fakes; basically they are worth nothing 
646, Oakins with a lookalike and replacing the real gem with a fake 
647, Counterfeit goods are also readily available, even though Taobao claims to have removed two million "fake branded goods" from the site. 
648, He progressed from making rubies to manufacturing other man-made gems including an imitation diamond 
649, The dealer tried to palm the painting off as a genuine Picasso, but I know it was a fake. 
650, Pick any product from any well-known brand, and chances are there's a counterfeit version of it out there. 
651, Buy a pairs of shoes from exclusive store and another identical counterfeit of it, mix them and wear them on. 
652, If the colour strength homogeneous , the most likely products are fake diamonds 
653, He wrote ''A Complete Guide to Bird Feeding'' (1975), a book that increased interest in bird feeding 
654, Every morning he carried home a loaf and gave half of it to the hen and cock, the bird, or to some dog or starving cat. 
655, Over 300 head of cattle on the farm provide natural fertilizer for the crops 
656, What do you think of you hear the word "agriculture" ? The image of crops growing in field or a barnyard full of animals may come to mind. 
657, Horses are not sensitive taste receptor, therefore, horse gathering a wide range of food, horse is the most easy to raise animals. 
658, At the same culture time, the content of cadmium in cultured shrimp in inorganic cadmium group was more than organic cadmium group. 
659, It came out of a chicken, which is part of a farm, which is part of the biosphere, etc. , etc. 
660, They feed the chops to dogs, but they eat the potherb, which is used to feed chicken by villagers. 
661, Already he had begun to forget them, and Shepperton soon became an extraordinary aviary, filled with birds of every species. 
662, Some care for farm animals like horses and cows. 
663, Also, the carbon footprint of such a large facility may actually be many times smaller than that of the traditional dairy farm. 
664, The old man would go every day to the park to feed bird 
665, The farm breeds a wide range of poultry 
666, The farmer scattered corn for the chickens 
667, He told me that this drought has taught him a hard lesson: it is too difficult to keep animals. 
668, Also husbandry would require more space per hen or a lower number of hens per barn (or even have a cock around to calm down quarrels) 
669, Raising animals makes much money so that the living standard of the farmer can be rising rapidly 
670, He's currently trying to buy a farm so he and his wife can raise alpacas and chickens. 
671, This time, however, his job was to feed the rooster 
672, While he did not keep poultry in his household, chickens and other birds were found in his neighbourhood. 
673, The movie tells a story of a girl who embarks on a liberating journey across the remote expanses of Northeast India, searching for her estranged father 
674, X is a 1934 American pre-Code crime film starring Robert Montgomery as a jewel thief who gets mixed up in a series of murders in London 
675, Her favorite film is ''Beautiful Life'' and her favorite food is pasta and chicken 
676, Three minutes of silence are held on the western side to commemorate those lost and killed, and the film ends with a young boy walking alongside the wall 
677, No film shows a crab selectively picking coconut fruit, though they might dislodge ripe fruit that otherwise would fall naturally 
678, Using classic film aesthetics and techniques, the artist creates extreme characters and environments. 
679, He has also worked with Rooster Teeth to make a novel for their animated series RWBY, which was published on May 19, 201 
680, The bird symbolism will shift from prey to predatory throughout the film 
681, the film depicts bock's work as well as stories of people she meets, both refugees as well as police 
682, The film analyzes the US asylum application process by following several asylum applicants and asylum officers 
683, The theme of the film draws on different ideas of food 
684, The Walking Dead tells the story of the aftermath of a zombie apocalypse. 
685, The director is the person who gets to yell "Cut" when he wants the camera to stop filming during the making of a movie. 
686, The film deals with the dynamics among a group of new boys in a dormitory in Foot House 
687, The stunt was part of a campaign in 26 cities worldwide promoting the Halloween premiere of the AMC television series "The Walking Dead. " 
688, The morning and midday shows for ''Krack'' were cancelled, and the film opened with evening shows 
689, In each film she is shown using a number of weapons, but only a few function as her principal tools of death 
690, Her second film with Firth was the British thriller film ''Before I Go To Sleep'', portraying a car crash survivor with brain damage 
691, The film ends with Josh shown to be coaching local lads in football and becoming father to a baby girl 
692, Once the film was completed, he put the reel into the trunk of his car and drove to Los Angeles seeking post-production services 
693, In 2015, the film Arbat was banned in Thailand due to its portrayal of Buddhist monks 
694, Thomas mentions throughout the film that the two chords are key to his memories and all he wants is to hear them one last time 
695, One is to take an exciting script, hire famous actors, shoot a rollercoaster of a film, distribute it widely and market it deftly. 
696, The film is a voyage through Italian cinema history, marking influential films for Scorsese and particularly covering the Italian neorealism period 
697, The film was created by Madhouse and opened at number one in Japan on January 12, 2013 
698, The film is about a dog and a man, and their journey 
699, A major portion of the film happens in the forest and he wanted to capture the sounds of nature in its purest form 
700, ''DNA2'' was adapted into a 12-episode anime television series by Madhouse and Studio Deen, broadcast on Nippon Television from October to December 1994 
701, An anime television series adaptation by Madhouse is set to premiere in 2022 
702, After the end of the series, it was revealed that the spin-off manga series, ''The Honor Student at Magic High School'' would get an anime television series adaptation in 2021 
703, The film begins on 23 August 1992 with the top-secret weather experiment led by Air Force General James Roberts (Martin Sheen) off the coast of Florida 
704, The movie is the debut directing by Peng Zhang Li, and the story is inspired by his own life as a monk and his new life in a foreign land 
705, The film deals with a man's tumultuous journey to seek vengeance and the demolition of family bond over a girl 
706, The station ?features? in the 1973 film ''The Day of the Jackal'', when the Jackal buys a ticket there, then catches the midday train to Paris 
707, She made her film debut in 1910 at the age of 35 with Kalem Studios in ''A Lad from Old Ireland'' 
708, The majority of the film was shot in a house overlooking the ocean on the Malibu coast 
709, The film ''The Day of the Jackal'', when the Jackal buys a ticket there, then catches the midday train to Paris 
710, The film opened with the lad lamenting the demolition of their favourite pub 
711, Her appearance in a string of successful films has led her to being called the first ever female Indian film star 
712, These 52 films take us on an enthralling journey from the Kashmir Valley to Kanyakumari and from Tripura to the coast of Maharashtra 
713, Madhouse is a 1974 British horror film directed by Jim Clark for Amicus Productions in association with American International Pictures.[1] It stars Vincent Price, Natasha Pyne, Peter Cushing, Robert Quarry 
714, The film has been shot as an African tale in the forest village of Amanha Lundju 
715, The entire season was caught on film for the series, Madhouse featured on The History Channel 
716, In September 1965 he announced he would make a follow up to that film set in the early days of automobile racing 
717, It is unrelated to the 2005 American film series of the same name by Sony's subsidiary Screen Gems 
718, The 1960 Universal film ''Chartroose Caboose'' featured a "bright green" colored train car 
719, the wizard Akiro opposite Arnold Schwarzenegger in the two Conan movies ''Conan the Barbarian'' and ''Conan the Destroyer'' 
720, In 2008, Kim played an elementary school teacher who falls for a Korean-Japanese jewelry designer (Mirai Yamamoto) in the Japanese film 
721, This episode and Toby's reconstruction appear in the 2006 film ''A Cock and Bull Story 
722, She made her feature film debut in 1998 in ''3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain'' 
723, But here is a definitive movie that touches a deep emotional chord and will leave a lump in your throat 
724, In 2021, he made a guest appearance as a Buddhist monk on the comedy film ''Lie Detector' 
725, The film depicts the son of Satan and an angel as he tries to save his father and prevent 
726, The unfinished bridge was long held as being used as the site of the car chase scene in the movie ''The Blues Brothers'' 
727, "Meteor Garden" , a Taiwanese TV series, is an adaptation of a Japan manga (comic). 
728, universal studios in universal city , california is already the world ' s largest movie studio lot. 
729, He became one of America's most well-known black film actors of the 1970s, after starring in a string of critically acclaimed and popular movies, many of them in the genre 
730, The film depicts Puyi's life from his ascent to the throne as a small boy to his imprisonment and political rehabilitation by the Communist Party of China 
731, '''''The Blast Furnace''''' is a 1950 North Korean film directed by Min Chongshik 
732, By chance, see a TV series, the plot to let me have a hit of the heart feeling 
733, The last scene of the film shows Danila walking out of a snow-covered forest 
734, The movie ''Yeh Ballet,'' a Netflix original movie released in February 2020, is based on Shah's early life story and the early life of his elder brother Nizamuddin Shah 
735, The film was premiered at Hidden Gems Film Festival in Canada followed by a number of oth 
736, Soviet leaders believed that film was an important tool of propagand 
737, I highly recommend that people get out of debt and stay out of debt, especially as the economy hits difficult times. 
738, Like in many countries, the car manufacturing industry has been significantly affected by the global financial crisis 
739, The subprime crisis is an example: some people were treated badly in this recent financial crisis. 
740, They cited the Fed's decision to implement several rounds of quantitative easing (QE) in response to the financial crisis of 2008, and to maintain near-zero rates through 2016 
741, The current economic crisis that began in 2007, has led the Spanish government to implement various austerity measures which have directly hindered the development of Spanish family policies 
742, In response to the financial crisis, Disney and his brother Roy started the company's first public stock offering in 1940, and implemented heavy salary cuts 
743, And yet, all this progress is under threat. From economic crisis. Rising joblessness and inequality. Climate change. 
744, And it would leave us with considerably reduced room for maneuver if another crisis comes along. 
745, Over the past 30 years, he says, 'there has never been a recession where the recovery has been so anemic as this one. ' 
746, Given the current financial crisis, triggered by a number of difficulties, leading to employment of university students is difficult. 
747, "We must maintain efforts until the moment we finally overcome the crisis, " he said. 
748, Purchasing foreign currency This man is purchasing foreign currencies with a pile of money in his hands. 
749, 'As the world deals with the global economic crisis, the value of gold as the only true 'hard currency' is coming to the fore, ' he said. 
750, The city was also affected by a severe financial crisis and a steady decline in textiles, automobile and steel production 
751, Before the Great Depression of the 1930s any downturn in economic activity was referred to as a depression. 
752, Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, every economic boom has been followed by an economic bust. 
753, The president said the economic crisis has forced his administration to make investments that will expand the nation's deficit and debt. 
754, After the Asian financial crisis of 1997-1998, most governments adopted floating exchange rate regimes. 
755, this is a financial crisis that is global and needs a global response. piecemeal won't work. 
756, It's exposing defects in many of our biggest financial institutions and every day we see more news about failures, huge losses, resignations, or firings of top finance people. 
757, Most of these central banks' authorities consider that such tool effectively contributed to the resilience of their domestic financial systems in the wake of the late-2000s financial crisis 
758, Following the 2008 financial crisis, a Greek government-debt crisis prompted the European Troika to implement austerity policies in the form of three distinct memoranda, despite public protest 
759, Is the lingering shadow of the global financial crisis making it harder to accept extravagant indulgences? 
760, The financial crisis has made it more acceptable to be between jobs or to leave a bad one 
761, But the backlash of the economic crisis of 1929 arrived and manufacturers of luxury cars all over the world suffered from poor sales 
762, She made six complete whale hunting voyages in the British Southern Whale Fishery before being lost in 1798 on her seventh voyage 
763, We were swimming in the river, given by the hot summer. We went boating and fishing, carrying home fish and shrimp. 
764, Next she sailed as a general trader, but also made one voyage seal hunting 
765, If you are trying to match a particular bait, the color of your fly should match the color of the bait for the depth you are fishing. 
766, Asked to choose, from all this fleet, the vessel to carry me on a month-long cruise in pursuit of blue whales, I would not have hesitated. 
767, She made four complete whale-hunting voyages but was wrecked in the Coral Sea in April 1820 during her fifth whaling voyage 
768, However pelagic fishing from boats from the Scottish east coast ports normally catch herring and an amount of blue whiting from the northern North Sea 
769, The main reason was that fishermen were still able to exploit their relatively new ability to find and catch their prey. 
770, During the voyage he witnessed the hunt and killing of three whales 
771, Most of the time, she can be found lobstering with her dad working in the stern. Each season has its own story to tell. 
772, They serve the fisherman on fishing near the shore and for fishing away from the shore they use another type of boat 
773, Commercial fishermen that typically have rights to fish in specific areas will be ill equipped for the massive migration of their prey. 
774, It's not just a matter of taking bluefin tuna and other valuable species out of the oceans through industrial fishing. 
775, In 1821 she sailed on a seal and whale hunting voyage to the South Shetland Islands and the coast of Chile 
776, Adjacent Crane Lake is known for walleye and small mouth bass fishing 
777, The people lived on fishing and the hunting of seals and sea birds 
778, This settles the boat's share of the total allowable catch of that fish for the entire country. 
779, They fished all day in fishing season and saw flying fish 
780, These conditions make it suitable for shore fishing and rock fishing 
781, because fishes for excessively, the sea fishery resources are reducing by the fearful speed. 
782, The lake is stocked with rainbow trout throughout the winter season, and fishing is open all year from shore or boat 
783, Fishery: Caught in coastal estuaries along northern Australian coastline. Very popular angling species. 
784, European Union quotas mean fishermen are only allowed to land a certain amount of each species. 
785, Locals fish for dorado, tuna, sierra, mahi mahi, wahoo, marlin, guachinango (snapper), juriel, sierra fish, grouper or cherna, shrimp, lobster and oyster, sailfish, and fish rooster 
786, This summer first Iceland and then the Faroe Islands unilaterally jacked up the amount of the fish they intend to let their fishermen catch. 
787, senescent fishery A fishery showing significant declines for a number of years, usually through overfishing . 
788, Fishing is possible both from boats and from the shore 
789, The fishermen splash their paddles to tell the dolphins they'd like to fish together 
790, In numerous areas off the California coast, the plan for sanctuaries will either limit the take, or make fishing completely off-limits. 
791, Scientists estimate that if fishing continues at current levels, stocks are bound to collapse. 
792, The fisherman msde a large number of fish with the larger fishnet in a day . He went home singing on the way and was very happy. 
793, Conservation groups and shark-fin opponents blame the dish for overfishing, which has depleted shark populations. 
794, While at the Wizards, he was included in the Danish squad for the 2000 European Championship in June 2000 
795, The Bayridge senior boys soccer team was undefeated in 2006 and was the Senior Boys Eastern Ontario Champions 
796, "How much Arsenal are loved here in Asia and how much the Premier League has penetrated Asia [has been positive], " he said. 
797, following this game, the san diego nomads played the fort lauderdale strikers of the asl in the 1989 national pro soccer championship in order to crown a "national" champion 
798, Elementary students may participate in boys & girls soccer, boys & girls basketball, baseball and softball 
799, Boys Sports : Baseball, Basketball, X-country, Football, Wrestling, Soccer, Swimming, Tennis, Track and Field 
800, He needs to get to know his team-mates and the league but I will look at him in training because he has a very good physical condition. 
801, In Africa there is often only one way for many young lads to escape from poverty and to make their way up the social scale - football 
802, Fall sports include: Football, Cross Country, Girls Golf, Boys Soccer, and Girls Volleyball 
803, 18 million, but a knee injury restricted his involvement and he did not start in the Premier League until late December. 
804, He is brother of Maren Mjelde, who plays for Norway women's national football team 
805, In 1908 the Pollokshaws Working Lads Club decided to form a football team from amongst their ranks 
806, "It's hard to win the Premier League because our top four sides plus Barcelona probably make up the best five sides in Europe, " he said. 
807, His younger brother Daniel is also a footballer who plays for HJK and the Finland national team 
808, The bigger picture for me was to rest and be ready because we have got a Champions League qualifier and a hard start. 
809, Yes, you could make the case that this season's Premier League was mediocre, with a general dip in the quality of football. 
810, Barry made his debut for the Guinea national football team in a 1?1 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification tie with Ivory Coast on 18 November 2018 
811, He made his debut on 6 October, in a goalless 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification match with Ivory Coast 
812, We're far from happy with our form in the Premier League as well but the only way to turn things around is by sticking together. 
813, He is the older brother of fellow retired footballer Brian Laudrup 
814, He played college football at Maryland Eastern Shore 
815, The 2012 AFL season is the Gold Coast Suns' second season in the Australian Football League (AFL) 
816, No lad who ever stepped on a football field had keener eyes than Everett had 
817, It dominated the English game before the war and has never been relegated out of the top division. 
818, Indeed, only Manchester City have had more attempts at goal than Liverpool in the Barclays Premier League so far this season. 
819, Can you imagine how messy Fat Boy Slim's funeral is going to be 
820, He was buried at Banani graveyard in Bangladesh on 27 January 2015 after a grand funeral which was attended by hundreds and thousands of mourners in Dhaka 
821, Kennedy's funeral procession traveled a journey from the Kennedy Compound in Hyannis Port, past numerous landmarks named after his family, to the John F 
822, He died in Dubuque, Iowa, on April 10, 1955, while attending the funeral of a brother-in law 
823, On the voyage, Louisa learned additional details about that funeral 
824, The funeral rites, orchestrated by his widow, were conducted by Buddhist monks 
825, Many reports have been made of monks in white and phantom funeral processions seen walking along this path 
826, The funeral was scheduled for the noon but was held in the morning because "the family just didn't want any more publicity 
827, A bell rings too while funerals process from one of the churches to the graveyard 
828, Although his funeral took place during the holiday, hundreds of people came to accompany him on his final journey 
829, Her funeral took place at All Saints Church on the noon of 30 December 2016, in Hataitai, Wellington 
830, The birds' cacophonous "funerals" can last for up to half an hour 
831, A funeral service that was broadcast on the Internet took place three days later at the Green Hills Memorial Park in Palo Verde, California 
832, The funeral will be held Tuesday midday at 1 o'clock, from his residence 
833, The funeral took place at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Hollywood Hills on 20 August 1977 with among the pallbearers Tom Jones and Gilbert O'Sullivan 
834, The final stage of the funeral was a journey of to his birthplace of in western France 
835, The two are heartbroken over their eternal separation, and the husband then holds a funeral for her as if she were a human being. 
836, Funeral services will be conducted at 2 o'clock Monday afternoon at local undertaking parlors 
837, Over the next few days, friends and relatives of his victims are facing the prospect of dozens more funerals. 
838, The funeral will take place this (Monday) afternoon, at 2 o'clock, from Trinity Church, and will be attended by the City authorities 
839, One of his last voyages to England was to attend her funeral as one of the chief mourners 
840, At Monk?s funeral service in 1982, it was mentioned in his eulogy that he took classes in harmony and arrangement at Juilliard 
841, Hughes had eight siblings (three sisters and five brothers), all of whom attended his funeral 
842, The funeral began in Salmaniya medical complex and ended in Mahooz graveyard 
843, His funeral was attended by 80 family members and friends at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Burnaby, where he was buried 
844, In response, the players threw down their racquets and knelt down around the bird, in an impromptu funeral 
845, His funeral was held the following afternoon at Northern Suburbs Crematorium 
846, His funeral was held at the Old North Church in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the Hollywood Hills 
847, An important ritual during such funeral rites is ''bangsukun'' (, from Pali offering of cloth to monks on behalf of the dead 
848, These are the burials of the Confederate soldiers and the Mexican boy 
849, He was given a public funeral at which nearly 2,000 North Monk boys marched in procession 
850, Her funeral was held on December 22 at Forest Lawn Memorial Park 
851, The bird the children found has died, and the children, assisted by the adults, hold a funeral for it 
852, They catch up with Toni only to discover that her brother's funeral is soon and she is running away with the intention of being present there 
853, Summer's funeral service was held in Christ Presbyterian Church in Nashville, Tennessee, on the afternoon of May 23, 2012 
854, Following the reception for Payne, his funeral was then held on 27 April 2013 at twelve midday and the burial then took place in St 
855, He watches the funeral from afar, and proceeds to bury the lad alone once the other mourners leave 
856, The funerals of his mother, brother and sister were all held in his absence 
857, Afterward, the boys return home in time to crash their own funerals 
858, Churchill's funeral was the largest gathering of world leaders during the 1960s?and, at that time, in history 
859, She travels to someone's funeral for two weeks, leaving lad in charge 
860, His funeral at Little Church of Flowers at Forest Lawn Memorial Park was attended by few 
861, Following the burial, everyone returns to the church hall for afternoon lunch and eulogy 
862, The name of the western constellation in modern Chinese is ??? (''ti?n h? zu?''), meaning "the heaven crane constellation" 
863, Its position in the sky makes it a so-called Trojan asteroid - a type previously detected only at Jupiter, Neptune and Mars. 
864, This radiation and solar wind began to push out the remaining dust and gas of the nebula, sweeping the Solar system clean. 
865, '''NGC 6445''', also known as the '''Little Gem Nebula''' or '''Box Nebula''', is a planetary nebula in the constellation Sagittarius 
866, Just below the Southern Cross on the far left is the dark Coal Sack Nebula, and the bright nebula on the far right is the Carina Nebula. 
867, Astronomers had been trying to explain the strange orbit of the seventh planet, Uranus . 
868, In the last few years we have found that some stars seem to be circled by clouds of small bits of matter. 
869, Clearly it would be of great interest if planets were discovered orbiting stars that lie closer to the sun. 
870, The planet's relatively low mass makes it a candidate for having a rocky surface like Earth's, though it could be a gaseous planet as well. 
871, "Anemic" galaxy NGC 4921 belongs to a class of galaxies in which star formation is nearly absent, giving it a haunting translucency. 
872, Where the otherwise obscuring dust clouds lie close to the hot, young stars they also reflect starlight, forming blue reflection nebulae. 
873, He is the brother of astronomer Lubo? Kohoutek, who named the minor planet he discovered in 1975, 2375 Radek in his honor 
874, Black holes millions or billions times as massive as the sun reside at the heart of most galaxies, including our own. 
875, The minor planet 58196 Ashleyess was named after Steel by its discoverer, Duncan Steel, Ashley Steel's brother 
876, After a year of studying Vesta, Dawn is scheduled to leave orbit and, in 2015, approach the only asteroid-belt object that is larger: Ceres. 
877, If that asteroid were to suddenly become as big as a moon, it would indeed rearrange itself gradually into a sphere. 
878, Previously, almost all solar systems seemed to be engulfed by a nebula and there was very little black in the sky around you. 
879, As a whole, the groups with BRGs tended to have more galaxies which were more luminous, and had a greater variety of velocities. 
880, As I'm sure you know, we found that there was a moon orbiting around an asteroid, first time ever that was suspected. 
881, 6818 Little Gem Nebula Planetary nebula Sagittarius 9 
882, Pluto is usually considered to be a planet, and Xena has unofficially been called a planet. 
883, The earth is one of the nine planets. All nine planets go round the sun the same way. Each of them also turns on its own axis. 
884, Such tumultuous , often visually spectacular, interstellar regions surrounding youthful stars are known as gaseous nebulae. 
885, Earth is a planet, it travels around the sun. Other seven planets travel around the sun as well. 
886, Mu Gem (Tejat) is the Bayer designation for a star in the northern constellation of Gemini 
887, Comets are just as much members of the sun's family as(are) the other planets 
888, In another part of the cluster there seem to be galaxies and dark matter, but no hot gas. 
889, The planet, known as TrES-2b, reflects less than 1 per cent of light, which makes it darker than any other planet or moon. 
890, UK online games are on red alert as they prepare for the arrival of the Cyberathlete Professional League World Tour. 
891, The game features improved Toy Box editor tools and introduces Toy Box Games, discs which allow players to create games based on genres such as tower defense 
892, It is the sequel to the Japan-exclusive Game Boy Advance title, ''Magical Vacation'' 
893, Much of the game's events occur within the train itself, which consists of two baggage cars, a restaurant car, two sleeping cars, and a private car 
894, is a board game involving a duel between two magicians who are both adept at changing form 
895, The way the "king" can be removed from the hill depends largely on the rules determined by the players before the game starts 
896, In those games which follow the ''Dungeons & Dragons'' tradition, monks tend to be characters with excellent martial arts skills who specialize in unarmed and unarmored combat 
897, In Japan, an is a car decorated with images of fictional characters from anime, manga, or video games (especially ''bish?jo'' games or ''eroge'') 
898, The game marks a return to the car balance of ''Project Gotham Racing 2'', with cars ranging from low-performance hatchbacks to supercars 
899, The game features five major worlds: The Boneyard, The Great Dank, Graveyard of Ships, Realm of Spirit and Castle Maximo 
900, The Wildcats played home games in "The Barn," which was heated by two pot-bellied stoves (later the site of Miller City Sportsman's Club) 
901, StarCraft has almost always been known for its easy to understand gameplay and mechanics. 
902, It is a game usually played by girls but often boys were also involved 
903, At the start of the game, the player becomes the recipient of a plot of land including a small graveyard once owned by his predecessor near a small town 
904, Car Most automobiles in the game can be modified and upgraded at various garages 
905, Everyone welcome Olaf, the Berserker into League of Legends 
906, The game was styled as "A Sequel to the Famous Parker Game Touring," with airplane flight as the theme rather than automobile travel 
907, In Starcraft, pro-players like Bisu, Nada, and Savior had strong Micro and a good sense of time management. 
908, The Adams brothers started the Bay 12 Games company, launching its website and releasing their games online 
909, Based on the game of the same name, the WRF table is based around the theme of racing cars and car maintenance 
910, this code will start the game in Magician Mode, in which Nathan has decreased strength and defense 
911, Cars in the console versions of the game are made from 60,000 polygons 
912, We have no doubt that WoW will continue to be one of the PC's most dominant games through 2007 and probably beyond. 
913, The game is rather memorable for its music and its islands made up of open fields, mountain chains, and dense forests 
914, several major fansites were invited to Maxis Redwood Shores to take a look at the game 
915, In 2012, she was inspired by games made with the interactive fiction tool Twine, and has made several games with the software since 
916, The game consists of nine screens, arranged in three levels from the sandy bottom to the reef's top, that various fish, including the player, move through looking for food 
917, Best New Play-by-Mail Game of 1998 ''Dungeon'' Madhouse USA Best Ongoing Play-by-Mail Game of 1998 ''Middle-earth PBM Fourth Age Circa 1000'' Game Systems, Inc 
918, Games Master magazine in the UK, which called it "a likeable, if slight, slice of gory Brothers Grimm gaming" 
919, is an American stock car racing arcade game first released in 1984 
920, Mason also created a string of panel game shows with producer Tony Shryane and these included ''Guilty Party'', ''My Word 
921, A boom in crane games occurred with the release of Sega's ''UFO Catcher'' in 1985, and since then the term "UFO catcher" has become synonymous with crane games in Japan 
922, ''Citadel of Fire'' is an adventure in which the setting is the Wizard's Tower with 6 tower floors and an extensive 5-level dungeon 
923, In the game ''EverQuest'', the monk class can be chosen only by the human, lizardman (Iksar), Froglok, or drakkin races 
924, Interactive Entertainment * Wizards of the Coast ==List of featured games== This is a list of notable titles that appeared at E3 2015 
925, The website allows users to play an online game where they can "step into the job of asylum officer for a few minutes and try deciding a case themselves 
926, This dice strategy game can be played with a physical set of dice that are made from hand-crafted jewels 
927, When all of the gems and fireflies in the game are collected, a minigame in which Sparx is the player character is made accessible 
928, The game is based on Journey to the West original story and characters 
929, Zombiens is a game made by Team Chaos that features some of the main Rooster Teeth personnel in their fight against zombies in the Rooster Teeth office and parking lot 
930, The 1982 ''Logger'' arcade game from Century Electronics is a direct clone of ''Donkey Kong'', with a large bird standing in for the ape and rolling logs instead of barrels 
931, The game follows the adventures of three young fairies journeying through the forest as they attempt to save their village from an evil menace 
932, The game included Web Gems instant replays, K-Zone pitching, Slam Zone hitting, and baserunner mode 
933, Additionally, Tembo is accompanied and assisted by a bird called Picolo throughout the game 
934, It also had two different games of the same name for the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game Boy 
935, We don't shy away from any type of game. If it has engaging gameplay and an audience like WoW does, there is always a possibility. 
936, A number of versions of the game have been produced, notably by Avalon Hill and Columbia Games 
937, The game tells the story of an unnamed protagonist who receives a frightened message from his brother asking for help 
938, The game is somewhat similar to that of Fruit Ninja and it revolves around one of the Epic Meal Time crew 
939, The game implements RPG concepts such as origins, classes and stat development, as well as an extensive skill tree providing hundreds of combinations 
940, Players need to replay the game several times before they can receive all the Dream Jewels 
941, The game includes a content creation tool that lets players make automobile races and deathmatches 
942, At the end of the game, the player who has the most jewels of a specific single colour wins the game 
943, The monk class also frequently appears in roguelike games such as ''NetHack'' and ''Linley's Dungeon Crawl'', which borrow elements of the class from ''Dungeons & Dragons'' 
944, The narrator speaks at the game's ending, which varies based on the number of fruit the player retrieved during the game 
945, Tanabe really wanted to see this idea in a game and was able to implement it in ''Link's Awakening'' as the basic concept 
946, It's a Must Have game for the iPad, especially if you love other great physics puzzlers like Angry Birds and Cut the Rope 
947,  the Anime X site published Spider Catcher and Oracle Daifugo, downloadable phone games based on the show for the FOMA-enabled cell phones 
948, The game takes place in numerous presumably illusory locations, ranging from an asylum to a factory 
949, They play elaborate games with each other and a string of women 
950, The object of the game is to escape a lunatic asylum 
951, They play the game Blind Travel, which would determine where in the world they would voyage 
952, The game includes a Multimedia Resource Tool to allow players to make their own journal and presentation of the journey 
953, Produced by Madhouse, the series is an adaption of the third-person shooter ''Gungrave'', with original characters designed by Yasuhiro Nightow 
954, The game includes a total of 130 quests and five hills to master 
955, The main currencies of the game are credits, alloy, and contraband, with gems being the premium currency 
956, In North America, it was the top-selling Game Boy game in August 1993 
957, Points are scored during the game for completion of rivers and forests 
958, Voyage Century Online is a third-person massively multiplayer online role-playing game 
959, It is a free-to-play game, supported by It has 15 PvP arenas where teams face off in 5 different game modes including domination, king of the hill and ball capture 
960, The goal of the game is to use hills in order to gain speed and flap as long as possible 
961, FIA World Rally is a car racing video game based on the 2010 season of the World Rally Championship (WRC) 
962, As a section popular electronic athletics game, the essence part certainly was the multi-people to fights. 
963, It is the second sequel to the Game Boy game ''Fortified Zone'', following the Japan-only Game Boy sequel ''Ikari no Y?sai 2'' 
964, The game ends when the player crashes into a computer car while no spare cars are in the pit 
965, Traditional games like elephant races, egg breaking and cock fighting are also held along with these modern and technically advanced games 
966, In 1318 came a gift of six oaks from the forest of Essex from Edward II 
967, It was in 1653 that the icon was sent by the Athonite monks to Moscow as their gift to Tsar Alexis 
968, Copies of the ''Kamen Rider'' series' belts are one of the most popular Christmas gifts for Japanese lad 
969, Dame of the Order of Saint Elizabeth, 1900: Wedding Gift in honour of her brother 
970, How do you make your appreciation for your boss heard without your gift coming across as a bribe? 
971, She appears to like him too as she smiles at him and accepts his gifts 
972, And leaves us, at the end of the listening, with a smile of joy and thankfulness that life is such a wonderful gift 
973, People take gifts of fruit to the temples for monks and are given blessings in return 
974, Always give books as at least one part of a birthday, Christmas, Easter, or holiday gift. 
975, The Dodgers' players soon replaced her noisemaking implement with a brass cowbell as a gift 
976, At midday, the wizard (Linda Flynn-Fletcher) asks the boys to hand out the gifts 
977, They are childless and are pleased when the bird brings the baby, believing it to be a gift 
978, I cant tell you how delighted I was with the wonderful New Year present you sent me. It reminded me of a good friends thoughtfulness. 
979, Casa villavicencio, a house on the hill top, was gifted to her as a wedding gift by her husband 
980, It was an honor to meet you last week. Your team brought us a very precious New Year gift. 
981, Yellowjacket decides to modify the gem and present it to his wife Janet van Dyne (the Wasp) as a gift 
982, The whole reason for saying thanks is to let the giver of a gift know how much you appreciate something. 
983, Among his gifts to Cluny, was a pyx set with gems in the choir 
984, One of her Christmas presents is a little device to open nuts -- a nutcracker 
985, As a New Year's day gift in 1596 James VI give him a jewel with a crown set with diamonds worth 90 crowns 
986, You are about to graduate, I had the intention is to bring fragrance of flowers and delicious cake to see you, as a graduation gift to you. 
987, He treats all of them to a thank you gift before seeing them off on their journey 
988, The next day, while shopping at the local store, Cynthia buys a gift for a young boy 
989, Cakra Donya bell was a gift from Zheng He during his voyage to Pasai 
990, My son couldn "t wait to see what was inside the box his mom gave him as a birthday present. " 
991, her foster brother Mustaqeem (Imran Ashraf) wants to give her gift for her birthday 
992, The car park opposite the woollen mills, along with the Recreation grounds, were given as a gift to the villagers 
993, One of these cars was given as a gift from Adolf Hitler to Ante Paveli? 
994, Eve presents Michael with a final gift, a terrestrial globe as a souvenir of his journey around the earth 
995, After each trip, he brings birds back to his family as a gift 
996, The gift is an origami crane that can be sent to pass messages to people Katya knows 
997, The much wealthier Toni begins to buy Reeves expensive gifts such as a house, a car and jewelry 
998, The land for Aldrich Field was a gift to the University from brothers Charles and Henry Aldrich 
999, Eagle ultimately presents Romy with the keys to his wife's car as a gift 
1000, Look at my new cell phone. It's my birthday present. It has a glow-in-the-dark keypad and a flashing antenna. 
1001, Bill gives Nicki a power tool as an anniversary gift 
1002, the railroad's main commodities transported are asphalt, cement, chemicals, fly ash, forest products and propane 
1003, The wagon works continued for a further two decades producing continental ferry vans, Freightliner vehicles, merry-go-round coal hopper wagons and the Cartic4 articulated car transporter 
1004, This station provides services for the reception and delivery of goods by car and small shipments, which are loaded with whole cars 
1005, Her maiden outward voyage to Melbourne took 42 days, with one coaling stop, carrying 4,000 tons of cargo 
1006, Route optimization problem in multimodal transport directly influences the freightage cost, freightage time and freightage quality. 
1007, Exceptional location for business exchanges, trade and transport of goods provided excellent conditions. 
1008, The seller will deliver the goods. The mode of transport to the point of delivery is at the seller's discretion. 
1009, On a voyage from San Francisco to Fremantle carrying timber cargo 
1010, The company now has its own professional transport team, with the size of a total of 5 vehicles to ensure timely customer service Product. 
1011, The modern railroad transports bituminous coal, intermodal shipping containers, automobile parts and completed vehicles, and other commodities in the 21st century global transportation markets 
1012, This was used to transport larger freight items (the car bodies can be removed to provide a flat load bed) 
1013, There 's no doubt that the shipment of goods have be Improved by the technique of containerization . 
1014, its geographical position enables a permanent traffic between porto alegre and buenos aires, transporting steel-industry products and mainly agricultural produce 
1015, We move products around by direct shipping, which is a sort of mass-transportation for goods. 
1016, By 1895 the company had 10 machines running around the clock and was shipping between 10 and 15 car loads of stone each day on the Monon Railroad 
1017, Because of its large volume and low cost, the waterway transportation occupies a large share in the transportation of dangerous goods. 
1018, The traditional carriage of goods by a single mode of transport developed an appropriate transport document for each mode. 
1019, The railroad served various load-outs along the river, where the barges carrying pebble were unloaded into ore cars for the journey to the drying plants at Arcadia and Hull 
1020, We cooperate with professional logistics companies to provide efficient goods transports such as sea, air and land transports to customers. 
1021, That the only intent of their voyage to Virginia is to carry passengers, goods and munition for the plantation there 
1022, His headstone is still visible in the graveyard of Nebel 
1023, She was interred in the Garden of Memory of the Forest Lawn Memorial Park cemetery in Glendale, California 
1024, His tombstone shows a depiction of his DeLorean sports car with the gull-wing doors open 
1025, near the stupa is the gravestone of a monk who was murdered by an anti-Buddhist group while the building was being built 
1026, Founded in1610, it is near the site of a mausoleum erected by Aurangzeb in honor of his empress 
1027, The graveyard contains the graves of 20 Commonwealth servicemen from World War I, and eight from World War II 
1028, Mausoleum: Large, impressive tomb, especially a stone Building with places for entombment of the dead aboveground. 
1029, This mountain forest cemetery is covered in flowers from top to bottom from families who keep their family traditions 
1030, He felt very strange, because usually are sealed tomb, and in order to corrosion, the air will be very dry, there should be no grass grows. 
1031, Many of the deceased soldiers of the Iran?Iraq War were buried in the martyr's section of the graveyard 
1032, He then leads the others to a church graveyard in the woods where long-dead Confederate soldiers from the American Civil War are buried 
1033, Several big tombstones inside the church are displayed behind glass, showing the importance of the church as a cultural centre for nearby communities during previous centuries 
1034, The graveyard was used for burials for nearly sixty years, its most active period being during the Epidemic of 1838, in which hundreds of Knoxvillians died from an unidentified illness 
1035, When the doors of his tomb close forever, his mummy won't be moved from its original resting place in the Valley of the Kings. 
1036, Her tombstone, a flamboyant fibreglass monument, is also seen occasionally 
1037, Moore's grave at Forest Hill Cemetery Moore died in Memphis on June 12, 1909, and is interred at Forest Hill Cemetery in Memphis 
1038, The oldest traces of a settlement in the area are several Hallstatt era grave mounds in the Spilwald forest 
1039, And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David. 
1040, The epitaph on Finger's gravestone is "This voyage done, set sail and steer once more To further landfall on some nobler shore 
1041, His interment is at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles, next to his son Matthew 
1042, His gravestone in Shockoe Hill Cemetery in Richmond reads thus "Paterfamilias - Nicholas Mills - Born in Hanover County Nov 
1043, Tomb circle surrounded by a very thick wall, tomb intact, with this closely related 
1044, His grave site is noted by one of the eleven historic markers in the town 
1045, He is buried in Jewish Waldheim Cemetery in Forest Park, Illinois 
1046, There was an old abandoned cemetery atop the hill with rows of unmarked headstones and tangles of brushwood clogging the aisles. 
1047, In front of the church can be seen the graveyard with standing gravestones 
1048, He is buried in an unmarked grave in Chorleywood House cemetery 
1049, His grave is located at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Burnaby 
1050, He also gives his gambling winnings for a proper headstone for her brother 
1051,  the grave was deliberately made too small for the body, so that the murderer would feel uncomfortable even in death 
1052, From the predecessor building is a paving grave stone in the floor of the church 
1053, He was buried on 2 September in the graveyard of St Mary's Church, Handsworth 
1054, He looked around the vault and saw Tybalt's body lying in its shroud 
1055, Her tomb and gravestone in Lotofaga village overlooks the south coast of Upolu island 
1056, The graveyard contains five Commonwealth War Graves Commission type burial plots 
1057, In the graveyard around the church are found impressive, centuries-old gravestones of importance to art history 
1058, The tomb is the burial place of the ancient Egyptian Amenemhab, whose title was ''wab-priest in front of Amun'' 
1059, The brothers were buried in the same grave in St James' Church, Christleton, and the headstone of their grave is a Grade II listed building 
1060, Three tombstones were erected in each of the churches , to whose monks he had bequeathed his estate 
1061, He died on 26 July 1697, and was buried at Bunhill Fields, where a long Latin inscription was placed upon his tombstone 
1062, The grave stands at the head of one of the western lines in the western extension  
1063, These mastabas were square buildings with a room inside for the coffin and the mummy and some things to take with you to the afterlife. 
1064, It encompasses the original Tomb of the Unknown Soldier 
1065, The church yard/cemetery, on a high hill to the southwest of the church, contains dated tombstones from 1790 
1066, She takes him off to the graveyard where her grandfather is buried and the maze symbol is engraved on his gravestone 
1067, More than four decades later, his grave still remains unmarked, without a headstone 
1068, The graveyards include the Commonwealth War Cemetery, Chittagong and Mainamati War Cemetery, which are maintained by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission 
1069, This book can be most effectively used for voyage planning in conjunction with the proper volume(s) of the Sailing Directions (Planning Guide) 
1070, Stove should be used according to the manufacturer's instructions 
1071, This easy-to-read guide is addressed to those who meet the qualifications. 
1072, The guidelines and techniques in this document were validated using 
1073, But he may not be able to slow down enough to read directions carefully 
1074, The customer must constitute safety regulations. Installation, maintenance and operation must be performed in accordance with this manual. 
1075, At over 1000 pages, it is claimed to be the largest car buyer's guide on the planet 
1076, The guidelines suggest using treatment that are based on results of control studies supported by established scientific organizations. 
1077, ''Motor Camper & Tourist'' was a travel guide for those that toured the United States by automobile 
1078, Above all, make sure you read the directions first before trying to fix it 
1079, The first journey used local guides and she was accompanied by a missionary from Finland 
1080, The computer manual is supposed to be user-friendly, but I cannot understand a word of it. 
1081, This easy-to-read guide is addressed to those who meet the qualifications 
1082, She read Matthew Fontaine Maury's detailed guide ''Sailing Directions'', prior to the voyage in May 1851 
1083, This is a mould heating furnace operation manual, I hope it will be helpful to you 
1084, Career counsellors offer impartial advice, guidance and information to all pupils 
1085, '''''The Dog & Lemon Guide''''' is an annual car buyer's guide originally based in Auckland, New Zealand, sold throughout British commonwealth countries and beyond 
1086, The definitive illustrated guide to printed circuit board acceptability  
1087, Snape attended Hogwarts in the 1970s as a Slytherin, and was in the same year as Gryffindors James Potter, Sirius Black, and Remus Lupin. 
1088, It is possible that if Harry performs magic, he might draw the attention of Death Eaters or even of Voldemort. 
1089, ''Harry Potter'' trains to become a wizard at his late childhood and mentored by Albus Dumbledore in facing his destiny and enemy Lord Voldemort 
1090, Dobby has no master. Dobby is a free elf, and Dobby has come to save Harry Potter, and his friends! 
1091, In the ''Harry Potter'' universe, a wizard must expend much greater effort and concentration to use magic without a wand, and only a few can control magic without one 
1092, Rowling's ''Harry Potter'' fantasy sequence of seven novels chronicles the adventures of the adolescent wizard Harry Potter 
1093, You, Miss Granger, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. 
1094, The four friends joined the Order of the Phoenix to fight against Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters during the First Wizarding War. 
1095, in ''harry potter and the deathly hallows'', greyback leads a snatcher gang ? dark wizards looking for muggle-borns and "undesirables" in exchange for gold 
1096, What happened to Dumbledore explaining the fact that Harry and Voldemort's wands had the same core, and that the feather came from Fawkes? 
1097, Rowling's ''Harry Potter'' series, centaurs live in the Forbidden Forest close to Hogwarts, preferring to avoid contact with humans 
1098, Draco Malfoy has been called upon by Lord Voldemort himself to carry out a mission of great importance and greater consequence. 
1099, Besides, this behavior is frowned upon by the Hogwart's (magic) school, so Harry is never pardoned and he does face punishment for it. 
1100, She is a Gryffindor who entered Hogwarts in 1991 
1101, tortured to the point of insanity with the cruciatus curse by a group of death eaters led by bellatrix lestrange who were looking for information on lord voldemort's whereabouts 
1102, We've accompanied the young wizard on many missions in preparation for his inevitable epic battle against the dark lord Voldemort. 
1103, Harry Potter is an orphan whom Rowling imagined as a "scrawny, black-haired, green eyed and bespectacled boy who didn't know he was a wizard 
1104, We have followed the orphan Harry from his cupboard beneath the stairs to the heights of Hogwarts. 
1105, Maybe Hermione will not end up with Harry, but at least we will still be able to see them together at Hogwarts school. 
1106, A man named Harry Potter child, not an ordinary child, born with a bad guy fight with Voldemort symbol, a shaped like a lightning scar. 
1107, Severus Snape used his Patronus to lead Harry Potter to the forest pool wherein Gryffindor's sword was hidden in ''The Deathly Hallows'' 
1108, The indigenous people of Panama lived by hunting, gathering edible plants & fruits 
1109, Birds are hunted in the rain forest while wild berries are gathered as the main food supplement 
1110, The first hunting ritual was performed by boys in order to become man and the second by man to become community elders 
1111, The only thing that stops were wolves is a silver bullet to the heart. There is NO CURE. 
1112, In the past the people here conducted activities such as hunting, fishing, potlatching, berry and fruit picking 
1113, As the leopard's lack of running speed and endurance, therefore, it is always willing to stay in dense forest hunting. 
1114, The mountain is very rich in mixed forests resources and hunting wildlife, including Bosnian endemic quarry mammals 
1115, The '''Wayward Lad Novices' Chase''' is a Grade 2 National Hunt steeplechase in Great Britain which is open to horses aged four years or older 
1116, This may aid the bird when having to hunt for prey within the rainforest environment in which they are located 
1117, free blacks could be captured by bounty hunters seeking escaped slaves 
1118, Charlie 'Mad Dog' Hooper ? A fierce and ruthless thug-like boy so named because of his hunting habits 
1119, Hunting is probably the earliest form of forest use 
1120, She rendezvoused with a hunter killer group, headed by , at noon the 12th 
1121, Charlemagne also considered other advantages of the place: surrounded with forest abounding in game, he intended to abandon himself to hunting in the area 
1122, As a result of this lesser dependency on hunting for food hunting became a recreational sport 
1123, In winter, one foraged for and hunted possum, echidna, fruit bats, wallaby and kangaroo   
1124, The lad used to visit the jungle near their house (''mana'') for hunting with His bow and arrows 
1125, They have been hunted in the Northern Sumatra in the past as targets for foo 
1126, Hunting is also permitted in the nearby Tuscarora State Forest 
1127, They hunt birds, reptiles and mammals for food, adornment and trade with neighboring tribes 
1128, Hunting by humans is not believed to have been the main cause of the bird's extinction 
1129, Another part of the rain forest is used as a hunting ground 
1130, Bird populations have been threatened by hunting within the region 
1131, Realising that they had insufficient stores for the voyage he set about hunting wild pigs and otherwise acquiring additional food 
1132, Captive boa constrictor strike-feeding on large (already dead) rat Their prey includes a wide variety of small to medium-sized mammals and birds 
1133, Swan is not a particularly tasty bird, and most hunters would have preferred to shoot deer 
1134, A king was once hunting in a great forest, and he chased his prey so eagerly that none of his men could follow him. 
1135, The pig was claimed to have been shot during a hunt on May 3, 2007 by an 11-year-old boy named Jamison Stone 
1136, Hunting is performed mostly during nocturnal hours for Food and feeding 
1137, They hunted in late autumn, but still often were short of food by late winter 
1138, The first major technologies were tied to survival, hunting, and food preparation 
1139, Big game and bird hunting is popular among some area visitors 
1140, In shame Procris fled to the forest, to hunt with Artemis 
1141, They stayed up all night hunting, and they came back to a garrison at noon 
1142, Some birds are hunted in the Caribbean for commercial sale as food 
1143, Crane died in New York City in 1963, following an extended illness 
1144, Whenever a slave becomes ill they are thrown overboard at once so that the illness will not spread to other slaves 
1145, Likewise, there seems to be physical illness, emotional illness, mental illness, spiritual illness. 
1146, Typically the symptoms involve a change in heart rate, be it a slow down or palpitations or high potassium levels. 
1147, We kept that patient in a bit isolated room & told him repeatedly that he is not having cancer; he was misdiagnosed & will get well soon. 
1148, They tell the boys that their planet has had a crisis and that everyone is slowly dying of a mysterious sickness 
1149, Crane died from an AIDS-related illness 18 months later 
1150, Other research has found that adults, regardless of age, will tend to increase fruit and vegetable consumption following a diagnosis of breast, prostate or colorectal cancer 
1151, There have been several documented examples of mass illness within prisons from the food served 
1152, Twenty months later, Former naval doctor Peter Crane is sent to investigate a mysterious illness that has broken out on the rig 
1153, According to some, his disease was a quickly progressing form, contracted during his wedding voyage 
1154, Cooking can prevent many foodborne illnesses that would otherwise occur if the food is eaten raw 
1155, Known as a "fatty liver" , this condition is often associated with diabetes and heart disease risk, regardless of your shape. 
1156, As peri-menopause begins, fat tends to accumulate around the waist and chest, increasing our risk of heart disease. 
1157, EUSA Pharma said acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common form of childhood cancer and one of the most curable types. 
1158, Prediabetes is an immediate risk and a shadow hanging over your future health. 
1159, some of the most commonly mistaken diseases are encephalitis, toxic encephalopathy, status epilepticus, heat stroke, catatonia and malignant hyperthermia 
1160, moreover just prior to purchasing Glengariff there was much illness in the family with a baby boy dying from pneumonia and TC Beirne himself suffering from typhoid fever 
1161, Many who have emetophobia are diagnosed with anorexia or In severe cases of emetophobia they may drastically reduce their food intake 
1162, Tobacco use is one of the main risk factors for a number of chronic diseases, including cancer, lung diseases, and cardiovascular diseases. 
1163, A -year-old boy admitted to Willard Parker Hospital for treatment of whooping cough just prior to Le Bar's death also came down with smallpox and was diagnosed on March 17 
1164, The author present a clinical case of a HIV patient in which the first manifestation of the disease was a pulmonary embolism. 
1165, Nick later developed a friendship with Adam Trueman's brother Alex and confided to him that he had a degenerative illness 
1166, "We tend to think of epidemics as infectious diseases, but we are now having an epidemic of diabetes worldwide 
1167, Recently, my Doctor told me that I would not last for the next Four months due to cancer illness. 
1168, the miasma was thought to have caused a lot of diseases such as the cold, influenza, heat strokes, malaria, or dysentery 
1169, it is also more common after cardiovascular illnesses, and is related more to those with a poor cardiac disease outcome than to a better one 
1170, In large parts of Africa, cancer is only diagnosed in the late stages, pain relief is lacking, and palliative care is in its infancy. 
1171, During their journey back to Mara, when the company is delayed in Tharmine's domain, he is infected with a deadly disease, forcing Bragon to amputate his arm 
1172, He only made one voyage as a slave trader and retired back to Brecon due to illness, probably Lassa Fever 
1173, when miyage is diagnosed with cancer and falls ill, snehmoy takes a long leave of absence from his school and tries to find a cure for her illness 
1174, Heart disease requires a truly comprehensive approach to care, the kind you will find at the Heart Center at Huntington Hospital. 
1175, He said he had heart attacks and developed the disease diabetes 
1176, Disorders and illnesses such as constipation, diarrhea, reflux, ulcers, food allergies, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, colon cancer, and rectal cancer, among others 
1177, All that added weight leaves them at risk for a variety of healthproblems, including diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. 
1178, Cancer is just a synonym for a large number of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell growth. 
1179, Many of Streator's immigrant coal miners were trained in glass blowing 
1180, An applicant initially presents his claim to an asylum officer, who may either grant asylum or refer the application to an Immigration Judge 
1181, The Italians are particularly unhappy with the French who've been blocking hundreds of the migrants trying to cross the border from Italy. 
1182, As time went on, many of these first settlers settled down and began to farm and domesticate animals. 
1183, He immigrated to Israel with his parents Makhluf and Allen and his two brothers Shmuel and Michel 
1184, Kurdi stated they attempted to travel to Greece after Immigration Canada refused his asylum request 
1185, I was brought up in an Italian immigrant family with a work ethic that teetered on the verge of slave labour. 
1186, For the immigrants, identity is always floating and travelling, without a final destination, except some temporary location. 
1187, It could also be divided by occupation, a majority being farming immigrants, but also with fishing, mining, forest and industrial immigration 
1188, There has always been a rather steady stream of French immigrants, but never a large one. 
1189, He served in Singapore and Malaya, and emigrated to Australia in 1956 following a voyage there as a ship's cook 
1190, Perhaps the tougher economy has cut down on immigration while increased enforcement has reduced the inflow of illegal immigrants. 
1191, Crenshaw also argues that Mexican drug cartels have fueled illegal immigration by taking advantage of the US asylum process to smuggle people into the country 
1192, laws concerning immigration and green card, a document confirming permanent resident status for eligible immigrants, including refugees, political asylum seekers, migrants, workers and diversity immigrants (dv) 
1193, It is spoken by descendants of Germans from the Black Forest region of southern Baden, who emigrated to Venezuela in 1843 
1194, Some early German foresters also emigrated to North America 
1195, Thomas immigrated to the United States with his family shortly after the execution of his brother 
1196, He portrayed the role of an immigrant, who is tortured and treated like a slave in a desert of Saudi Arabia 
1197, You will be able to complete a no- obligation Quick Check Assessment to determine if you and your family can migrate to Australia . 
1198, immigration has become a prominent political issue, as reports of boatloads of illegal immigrants (or dominate news programmes, especially in the summertime 
1199, They were two of six Walser brothers who immigrated to the United States from Haldenstein, Gaubuenden, Switzerland 
1200, Beck sees mass immigration as a direct result of U. S. policy and calls it a "federally coercive congestion program. " 
1201, Many of the asylum seeker participants entered the United States as undocumented immigrants 
1202, In the early years of these large immigrations most of the people settled in the urban centers near their port of entry. 
1203, The majority of these newcomers continued to come from Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia. 
1204, After graduation, he followed his oldest brother Robert and emigrated to the United States in 1897 
1205, Those who managed to cross the border were given support, asylum, visas, and work for those immigrants who stayed in Mexico 
1206, There lived many Belgian immigrants in the Monongahela area at the end of the 19th century, some of whom were glass makers 
1207, Paddon's car became engulfed in flames which destroyed it, but T?nak managed to pull his vehicle away from the inferno 
1208, The priest accuses the boy of blasphemy, and burns him "in a holy place / where many had been burned before" 
1209, After departing on her maiden voyage, the ship caught fire around 05:30 on 12 October 1922 at position , some from Los Angeles 
1210, on July 31, more than 30 fires were started in the Black Belt before noon and all were believed to be arson 
1211, *10 October ? Paul Streeton douses school boy Tjandamurra O'Shane in petrol and sets him alight, causing burns to 70% of Tjandamurra's body 
1212, Fires ignited aboard the ship and blazed out of control, and it sank in the shallow waters off the coast 
1213, Three lads climbed into the model and burned to death when fireworks they let off set it on fire 
1214, Frances was severely burned when the family's stove exploded as she was attempting to light it 
1215, The Kurrajong Heights Hotel, a building with panoramic views towards the coast, was opened in 1928 but destroyed by fire in 1975 
1216, The ship caught fire on her maiden voyage in 1932 and sank in the Gulf of Aden with the loss of 54 lives 
1217, Sasha's parents had been killed in a house fire that he was accused of starting through wizardry 
1218, A major fire in the ship's processing factory broke out on February 15, 2007 while in Antarctic waters 
1219, The accident also caused the gasoline tank of the car to explode, causing burns over 65% of his body 
1220, Fortune burned his stepson leaving the boy disfigured with severe burns over nearly 50% of the child's body 
1221, A fire ravaged the building in 1213, and after this the monks moved away to found a new monastery on the site of present-day B?ckaskog Castle 
1222, "I instantly called the depot, but they told me that it had already been thrown into the incinerator, " he said. 
1223, The Gem Hotel was established in 1877 but it was destroyed by fire on 27 June 1933 but was insured 
1224, Investigators determined that the fire was caused either by a problem with electrical wiring or a faulty furnace on the ground floor of the building 
1225, In 1934, the passenger vessel SS ''Morro Castle'' suffered a serious fire off the coast of New Jersey, which ultimately claimed the lives of 124 passenger and crew 
1226, A night fire on July 31, 1907 that started by an overheated boiler in the laundry and bakehouse area, swept through the Poor Farm and Asylum, housing 900 patients 
1227, Because automobile gasoline is flammable, an occupancy separation is often required between the two should there be a vehicle fire 
1228, The point of contact was where one of the fuel tanks were, and the car burst into flames 
1229, The wood frame building was heated by a potbelly stove which caused a fire that destroyed the school in 1889 
1230, By mid-afternoon, the fire was spreading downwind at a rate of and the NSW Police commenced evacuations to the east of the fire, including at Siding Spring Observatory 
1231, The last recorded fires in the forest reserve were 1961, when some of the drier forests burned, and 1968, when the northwest corner was lightly burned 
1232, a young gypsy boy wandering the woods after the 1948 fire, horribly disfigured by burns 
1233, The blaze was reportedly started by a boy playing with matches 
1234, The fire started in the long gallery and some of king's jewels were damaged 
1235, The wagon was taken to fires by hitching it to the back of an automobile 
1236, By the time rescuers reached the bridge, many wounded passengers had already made their way to the shore and the fire was burning fiercely 
1237, In the afternoon, burnout operations were conducted along Route 242, west of the fire's main front 
1238, This serious fire occurred when the boiler room caught fire at the beginning of its journey across the Atlantic on its way to USA, New Zealand, and Australia 
1239, The house was destroyed by fire in 1928, due to a failure in the heating system in the furnace room 
1240, Renee locks Chase and lad in the attic, which she then sets on fire 
1241, a quail is about to see its nest and fellow birds consumed by a forest fire 
1242, At the end of the story, it is revealed that James the parrot had tipped over an oil stove to burn down the home intentionally 
1243, The entire sparsely populated portion of the Malibu coast west to the community of Solromar, which includes state and national parklands, suffered damage from the fire 
1244, By noon the fire had reached the town of Superior, three miles to the east, prompting people to escape the stores there 
1245, Curiously, of all the cargo aboard the steamer, a lone automobile survived the fire that raged for many hours almost completely unaffected 
1246, On the night of January 15, 1901, a fire broke out in the dining room of the Indian Boys School and swept out of control 
1247, Three days later, the apartment he shared with his brother was destroyed by fire 
1248, The remaining car or cars of that train were burned 
1249, The journey to Melbourne was not without incident and Embling was caught up in the bush fires of Black Thursday in February 1851 
1250, Four days after the fire at Old Main, a barn on the asylum grounds caught fire 
1251,  On 29 January 2021, a building providing accommodation to asylum seekers at Napier Barracks suffered damage as a result of fire 
1252, The car was then set ablaze and was discovered by firefighters on September 29 
1253, By late that afternoon, the complex had burnt out and had killed eleven people 
1254, When the asylum burst into flames, he chose to stay behind and perish in the fire 
1255, At 3:30pm, a burning rail car was run into the Union Depot and the building set alight 
1256, The school, which during its use was divided into boys and girls, was damaged by a fire which destroyed the boys' side in the mid-20th century 
1257, Smoke plume from the Copping/Forcett fire Several large bushfires started on the afternoon of 3 January, including blazes at Lake Repulse, Richmond and Inala Rd, Forcett 
1258, they had put the fire out, but authorities believe the fire smoldered until the heavy winds ignited the fire on Thursday afternoon 
1259, the fire flamed and licked a Honda Supra motorcycle parked 2 metres from the stove 
1260, The Gem Theater was destroyed by fire on September 7, 1934 
1261, The Malibu coast has seen dozens of wildfires: * October 26, 1929 ? Malibu Colony, 13 homes burned 
1262, At noon the whole town was ablaze and the fire lasted for many hours 
1263, The asylum suffered considerable damage in 1912, where a fire broke out at 2 o'clock in a drying room 
1264, a fire destroyed her in 1824 during her second voyage for the EIC 
1265, Evidence suggests the fire started as the result of intense heat generated by the furnace 
1266, On reaching his native shore, he discovers that his family, along with his house was brutally burned down by Kumaran 
1267, He and Cylla arrived in Marin County, California and the heat of their journey started a fire 
1268, During the voyage she caught fire just after having called at Cape of Good Hope, but it was quickly extinguished 
1269, In October 2006, a series of bush fires caused extensive damage to the plantations of forest which cover the western slopes of the hill 
1270, This architectural gem was forced to close in August 1946 after suffering extensive damage from a fire, and was demolished soon after 
1271, The fire brigade were called at 12:20 noon and the blaze was soon declared a 'major incident 
1272, Several cars catch fire, and the train must stop to aid wounded and release burning boxcars 
1273, During the journey the ''Re d'Italia'' suffered a minor fire in the coal bunkers 
1274, it appears that the fire was started by a woman burning rubbish and papers in her cottage fireplace on thursday 
1275, The rebellion exploded on December 27, when slaves set fire to Kensington estate, in the hills above Montego Bay 
1276, A small fire that erupted in Haifa's Neve Yosef neighborhood in the afternoon was extinguished by midnight 
1277, Before midday on 11 August 2014, a large fire broke out aboard, starting in a forward interior section and moving aft 
1278, He then moved to another car and spread lighter fluid across the car in order to start a fire 
1279, Around 1940, the Carrier Mills Public School building burned down after a disastrous fire starting during a Boy Scout meeting in the basement 
1280, When he saw this, he made fire fall from the sky and burn the hills around the people 
1281, Things get complicated when the car catches fire and quickly turns into a small forest fire 
1282, Moments after her son was born, Tracy took a timid sip of breath for the first time in several minutes. 
1283, However, DNA testing proved the boy was not Ben, and the Greek boy's family also provided infant photographs to prove he was their child 
1284, Six- to nine-month-old babies mostly eat meat as part of a baby food that contains a small amount of meat along with vegetables or grains 
1285, Cues such as the caregiver's gaze, body language, gesture, and smile help infants to understand the meanings of words 
1286, "Binge drinking has many effects on the next generation through low-birth weight, birth defects and sudden infant death syndrome, " he said. 
1287, The mother showds her baby in her arms with a cradlesong 
1288, Babies typically move to consuming baby food once nursing or formula is not sufficient for the child's appetite 
1289, These experts maintain that a mother should decide when the breastfeeding stage is over, and gently wean her child to a bottle or cup. 
1290, In the 19th century, baby boys often wore white and pink 
1291, It follows that many sling and soft carrier users have found that carrying their infant is much easier on the back and shoulders than lugging them in a car seat 
1292, Miss Wells, if you were to have the child, would you keep it or have it adopted 
1293, I may also use cloth diapers, instead of disposables, if I can get it to work with my child-care situation. 
1294, These include a crib, a changing table, a swing or other rocking device, strollers, car seats, high chairs and basic baby clothing. 
1295, He told me that our English teacher has gave birth and she was in the hospital with her new born baby. 
1296, It seems unlikely that infants would be able to build relationships with others without some limited concept of themselves. 
1297, A baby learns to get the best care possible by smiling to please her mother or other caregiver. 
1298, demonstrate show Infants as young as three months old exhibit empathy when they get upset at the sound of another baby crying. 
1299, Sucking on strong to pacify the children may choose to use pacifiers , sucking in order to meet their needs. 
1300, While infants seem to be born with an ear fine-tuned for language, this starts to subtly change at around 11 months of age. 
1301, The baby cried a long time, but he has gone to sleep now 
1302, How much cotton contained in the raw non-woven fabrics is the most suitable number for baby's skin? 
1303, The midwife was saying it was the biggest she had ever seen and making us take photos of him. 
1304, One of the first areas of a baby's body to mature is the mouth, being near the top of the body. 
1305, But the newborn's skin is very delicate, not suited to many newborn diapers, easy to bottom from diaper rash. 
1306, I haven't yet met a newborn who could stretch her fingers into a socket from her crib. 
1307, His mother fed him on milk when he was a baby 
1308, another type of wood winds are free-reed instruments like the harmonica or mouth organ. 
1309, But their soniferous principle , diapason and playing method are quite similar, the vibration of languette makes the sound. 
1310, Spano grew up in a musical family, composing and playing flute, violin and piano 
1311, Soon the harmonica was her favorite instrument and, out of all the music she heard at home, she seemed to really be able to feel the blues. 
1312, We also supply all sorts of bags and covers for China traditional musical instruments, brasswind instruments,woodwind instruments, guitars and electric pianos 
1313, among the percussion instruments, the" qing ", tuned sonorous stone chimes of the Zhou era, has been retained today. " 
1314, When and how would I be able to return home again, to sit down at the piano or to pick up my cello or the violin. 
1315, As a plucked stringed musical instrument, Pipa music is of melody character and for expresses the melody lines by dots in performance. 
1316, Among many instruments that arrived in Europe through the Middle East is the lute , an ancestor of the violin. 
1317, The acoustic guitar is an instrument which has a very rich sound, and offers infinite possibilities to the player. 
1318, The violin was out of harmony with the rest of the instruments 
1319, A percussion instrument consisting of a concave brass plate that makes a loud clashing tone when hit with a drumstick or when used in pairs. 
1320, although his main instrument is trumpet, he has also performed on trombone, tuba, euphonium, flugelhorn, saxophone, clarinet, double bass, guitar, and piano 
1321, single string zither), a string instrument with only one string, said to date back to the 8th century 
1322, it's wind instrument with keys for the fingers to press on. The body is made of brass, and is usually curved. 
1323, The name of this instrument is easy to remember. It's a bag and it has pipes sticking out of it: bagpipes ! 
1324, Musical instruments include the Sarangi, Sitar, Tabla, Tambora, and Tanpura 
1325, The main Indian musical instruments are the Sarod, the Veena, the Sarangi, the Tambora, the Harmonium, the Ghata, the Tabla, the Tanpura, the Satar, etc 
1326, His father bought him a guitar and taught him the only chord he knew 
1327, Instrumetnts: GuZheng, Stell Guitar, Piano, E. Piano, Dub. Bass, Jazz Drum & Ethnic Percussion. 
1328, While beautiful music is often heard from pianos, much care and hard work goes into making pianos the enjoyable instruments they are. 
1329, As Piano, Saxophone, Accordion, Violin, Piccolo, Guitar, or even as a Woman Scream. 
1330, Another popular string instrument is the qanoun, developed by Farabi during the Abbasids era 
1331, Any one of various other instruments, such as the electronic organ, that resemble a pipe organ either in mechanism or sound. 
1332, He proved that the piano has a very wide range of uses, for it to become a first-class musical instruments to make a contribution. 
1333, You can record an electric guitar , electric bass, or other electric musical instrument in a Real Instrument track . 
1334, The violin is one kind of bowed instrument, its tone-colour wonderful and rich and broad music expressive force. 
1335, The larger zither family includes such instruments as the Aeolian harp, autoharp, cimbalom, dulcimer, koto, and even the clavichord, harpsichord, and piano. 
1336, The violin's body is a sound box made from wood, the thinner the better: spruce for the front, maple for the back, the neck and the ribs. 
1337, Traditional Korean musical instruments can be divided into wind, string, and percussion types. 
1338, It is a unique solo instrument and is also used extensively in ensembles and orchestras. 
1339, The boy died and Row collected $28,000 from life insurance policy 
1340, The lad land directly in the insurance office where Mary is about to be handed her check 
1341, Meanwhile, insurance companies are also beginning to make preliminary investigation for claims settlement. 
1342, The insurance company accountable for the jewellery wants it found, and hires Carver to recover it 
1343, Over the past five years, these companies have offered primarily private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia 
1344, Proposal to create a state insurance board and create broad regulations regarding automobile insurance 
1345, Paige, representative of the British company which insured most of the jewels 
1346, Each party is responsible for obtaining on its own account any other insurance coverage for the goods that he may desire. 
1347, The plan called for his company to sell automobile insurance to: members of Farm Bureau, members of farm mutuals, their immediate families, or those eligible for membership in such organizations 
1348, The next period was one where I was crippled with debt, as well as trying to survive on a single income with no medical insurance. 
1349, He has hatched an insurance fraud scheme in which the actor would break in and find $1000 in an empty jewelry case in his wife's bedroom 
1350, She said without efforts, money would come. Yes, I just lay in bed and the insurance company sent a million as the claims. 
1351, can see , manage compensate and be or get out of danger are a coherent process actually. 
1352, The crime of insurance fraud is a special type of fraud crime in the insurance field 
1353, ''Pamir''s last voyage was the only one in her school ship career during which she made a profit, as the insurance sum of about 2 
1354, Finally, Thurso decides to throw the remaining slave overboard, the insurance money being more attractive than their prospects for sale in a sickened state 
1355, 'We called to ask the insurance company about coverage and they said we aren't covered because we do not have tsunami insurance. ' 
1356, High risk drivers are often undesirable to insurance companies, and may not be able to purchase insurance through conventional means 
1357, automobile insurance also includes an aspect of liability insurance that indemnifies against the harm that a crashing car can cause to others' lives, health, or property 
1358, Her owners had arranged insurance of ?124,440 for her and her cargo for the voyage 
1359, American Access Casualty Company specializes in automobile insurance directed towards the Hispanic community 
1360, Where you can buy extra coverage depends on the location of your home and the particular catastrophe you're trying to protect against. 
1361, A one-time journey to the relevant registration authorities is permitted to have the seal reinstated, once insurance is restored 
1362, But he's surprised at how much insurance his customers are buying: some of the premiums are more than $1, 000 a month. 
1363, property insurance business, which offers automobile insurance, fire insurance, flood insurance, engineering insurance and other insurances 
1364, Air travel insurance is relatively expensive for this reason?insurers generally use the deaths per journey statistic 
1365, Many tourists believe that had the travel agency liability insurance not to need separately to purchase again insures. 
1366, In December of 2021, the insurer for the Boy Scouts of America agreed to pay $800M into the fund for victims 
1367, In this respect, it is possible to get a quick collection of compensation and that parties may reach an agreement on an insurance contract. 
1368, In July 2007, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) released a report presenting the results of a study concerning credit-based insurance scores in automobile insurance 
1369, Some states PIP is the insurance of first resort to pay for medical bills when injured in an automobile accident 
1370, It is used by travel insurance policies to determine a set of people on the basis of whose health someone might need to cancel a journey or return early 
1371, * Insurance - NARCOA arranges for operating insurance that rail car operators must purchase, on an annual basis, before taking part in a rail excursion 
1372, Before the end of 1851, enterprising businessmen had formed an insurance company and were offering to insure goods just for this journey 
1373, Therefore, how to effectively prevent and curb insurance fraud has become an urgent problem to be solved in the insurance industry. 
1374, In 1918 it began to offer automobile insurance as well 
1375, the baby was later found dead in the restroom, and drexler pleaded guilty to aggravated manslaughter, having put the infant in the trash can and then returned to the dance 
1376, But he never did. In 1977, he killed himself, leaving a note asking forgiveness 
1377, People are throwing themselves off the bridge at the rate of two a month, which makes it the most popular place in the world for suicides. 
1378, Just a few months before, his tormented brother Vinicio unfortunately committed suicide 
1379, There are very few instances in which a slave owner was charged with the murder of a slave 
1380, He had been kept as a slave and subject to year of abuse by the Watt family, six members of which were later jailed for their role in the murder 
1381, In Britain a workman, about to hang himself in an abandoned house, chalked his final words on the wall outside. 
1382, He discovers that the murder was committed by a notorious gangster who's attempting to frame the boy 
1383, The car had been rented by Sigrid Sternebeck and used in connection with the kidnapping and murder of Hanns Martin Schleyer 
1384, She left a suicide note, which read: "The journey is over 
1385, He requests them to murder the person who was chosen for district chief of party post ahead of his brother 
1386, The song is a murder ballad, telling of a young woman lured into the forest where she is killed and buried in a shallow grave 
1387, Reported that this was the first killing of American hostage by Somali pirates. 
1388, According to the San Diego County medical examiner, he died of suicide from inhalation of carbon monoxide from automobile exhaust 
1389, Two other workers attempted to kill themselves by jumping off buildings but survived. 
1390, He walked into the living room and found Katie lying dead on the floor. She had slit her wrists. 
1391, Her brothers Ktimenos and Antifos killed him in the temple of Nemean Zeus where he asked for asylum 
1392, Theo died six months after Van Gogh shot himself in a wheat field at the age of 37 in Auvers, France, in July 1890. 
1393, It turned out the hotel's sole guest had just hanged himself in his room 
1394, Before he can kill her, David shoots Black into a furnace, killing him 
1395,  Catalano, who drove the automobile with Rudnick's body, corroborated Reles' account of the murder 
1396, In the car were two suicide notes: One 11?page note addressed to "my wonderful husband" and another addressed to her daughter, to be opened on her 18th birthday 
1397, At noon in Sheung Shui, a group of around twenty middle-aged men used steel tubes to kill two young women who were setting up road blocks 
1398, When he returns to the car he finds his employer dead, perhaps due to natural causes or possibly due to murder 
1399, was brutally murdered last night with a motorcycle chain 
1400, In another part of the town, a man killed a woman with a knife and was seen to run away in a taxi. 
1401, The killers threw him into a ditch and covered his body with a thin layer of soil in an attempt to hide the body. 
1402, Urquidez has had training in nine styles: ''Judo'', ''Kajukenbo'', ''Shotokan'', ''Taekwondo'', ''Lima Lama'', ''White Crane Kung Fu'', ''Jujutsu'', ''Aikido'' and ''American Kenpo'' 
1403, Among all students of Yip Man, Kung Fu star Bruce Lee is of the greatest fame 
1404, Chinese martial arts includes a number of areas: self-defense (fighting), health (medical), heart repair (philosophy). 
1405, Chinese Wushu and calligraphy, belong to China's traditional culture, as a Kongfu and a writing, both are glorious 
1406, She is also very skilled in kung fu and often performs with her brother 
1407, It is characterized by the use of flowing techniques that resemble those found in White Crane Kung Fu 
1408, Wushu, a Chinese martial art, is still trying to get into the Olympics 
1409, however a suspicious concubine of Tuan's recognizes the distinct style of Kung Fu that Monkey is using, to be that of her own brother's 
1410, It details his journey to China after college to study Chinese wu shu, better known in the west as kung fu, and to teach English 
1411, Cudgel, the famous long weapon of Chinese Wushu, is one of the most important contents of traditional and modern Wushu competition. 
1412, Yip Men was acknowledged to be one of the greatest authorities on the subject of Wing Chun a branch of the Chinese Martial Arts. 
1413, Two fighters, Chu Man King and Master Wai, who are from different kung fu styles (Snake fist and Crane fist) meet for a duel secretly 
1414, Yongchun is home to a Chinese martial art called Yongchun White Crane Kung Fu 
1415, According to Chinese legend, he also began the physical training of the monks of Shaolin Monastery that led to the creation of Shaolin kungfu 
1416, During his 3 years in Taiwan he learned two types of Hsing-i, T'ai chi, Northern and Southern Shaolin, White Crane, and Monkey style kung fu 
1417, Jackie has been intrigued by kung fu since he was a boy, but he cannot afford to pay for lessons 
1418, He even spread the word about martial arts abroad, and enabled even more foreigners to understand Chinese martial arts, and to practise it. 
1419, Oh, I see them. Some are doing Taijiquan, some are performing swordplay, some are practising the Chinese Wushu. 
1420, Before joining the Five, Crane was the janitor at the Lee Da Kung Fu Academy, where he was looked down upon due to his slender build 
1421, The open hand and crane fist techniques lend credibility to this kata having roots in Chinese kung fu 
1422, Zhang Sanfeng was also an expert in the White Crane and Snake styles of Chinese martial arts, and in the use of the ''jian'' (double-edged Chinese sword) 
1423, Masato Sakai styles himself as a Kung Fu master and his brother is his pupil 
1424, There, he continued to study and teach kung fu with his brothers 
1425, Five Animals (literally "Five Forms") refers to the characteristic Five Animals of the Southern Chinese martial arts: Dragon, Snake, Tiger, Leopard, and Crane 
1426, Shi Xing Mi performing Shaolin Kung Fu in the Shaolin Temple 'pagoda forest' 
1427, Therefore how to make Wushu more popular in the community sports, and how to strengthen the position of it, it's up to us Wushu workers. 
1428, Sung also learned the martial art of Bagua from the kung fu brother of Dong Haichuan, the supposed creator of Baguazhang 
1429, Chiu Chu-ling has also appeared in ''Tiger and Crane Shaolin Kung Fu'' demonstrating the techniques from shaolin tiger and crane 
1430, In the kung fu manual "Boxing Classic" () from the 18th century, ''Sh?ol?n'' monks are described as practicing the style of 8 drunken immortals boxing 
1431, Han, who fends off the lad and reveals himself to be a Kung Fu master 
1432, They have indeed showcased Mr Lee's renowned philosophy of martial arts: As you think, so shall you become. 
1433, A monk practicing kung fu in the bamboo forest inside the Shaolin Temple '''Chinese martial arts''', often called by the umbrella terms '''kung fu''' and Thong Fu 
1434, Meanwhile, in the rainforest Oglas and Ogo bump into a red-skinned who beats them up with kung fu 
1435, Qiniang would modify her father's Nanquan techniques in the way that would serve as basis for what is now known as Fujian White Crane Kung Fu 
1436, The Madhouses Act 1774 was the first legislation in the United Kingdom addressing mental health 
1437, This law mandated all local governments to establish primary schools for boys 
1438, In May, Glass was awarded nearly US$21,000 in attorney fees after Kath's lawyers sought to vacate the dismissal of his defamation lawsuit against Glass 
1439, The onset of the communist period at first rolled back the development of individual rights with the primary concept of law returning to that of a tool of the state 
1440, He said the fact the number of new revocations since December 25 is relatively small reflects the basic strength of screening procedures. 
1441, Thus the links between a country's forest laws and its general environmental laws become more important as the environmental dimensions of forest legislation increase in complexity 
1442, Bull'' and a long string of cases establishing Supreme Court precedent to be overturned 
1443, In domestic policy, a disincentive is a tool that aims to deter an individual from breaking the law or otherwise reoffending 
1444, Only 726 civil cases were filed at the courthouse between 1931 and 2004, most of them involving car accidents or business disputes among the county's oil and gas producers 
1445, Organize and take lead in dealing with BBAC lawsuits, labor lawsuits and arbitration cases involving the company. 
1446, The agency is bound by the Washington State Legislature to implement state laws regarding education, including the 1993 education reform act which mandated the controversial WASL standards based assessment 
1447, The voyage had been planned by Gurdit Singh Sandhu as an attempt to circumvent Canadian exclusion laws that effectively prevented Indian immigration 
1448, After leaving the DA's office, she became a litigator, representing clients in complex international legal disputes. 
1449, The commission adopted 20 rules to be implemented in the laws that will govern the ethical choices that autonomous vehicles will make 
1450, In 2021, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit repeatedly rebuked him in a string of opinions for failing to transfer cases to more apt jurisdictions 
1451, Myanmar?s protected area system, under which 19 pieces of legislation was developed to protect parks and forests, emerged as an extension of forest law about 150 years ago 
1452, The High Court was asked to intervene by a bank which had sued the airline for not meeting the terms of payment for its leased aircraft. 
1453, Along with China, it has devised model legislation to assist other countries in implementing the criminalisation of people smuggling in their domestic law 
1454, Audi and Volkswagen removed the case from Creek County into federal district court in Tulsa, Oklahoma, where a jury sided with the two car companies 
1455, Ireland's 2006 law has been contested because it treats girls differently from boys 
1456, The Civil Concord Law was an amnesty law that provided the legal framework to implement the 1995 "rahma" law promulgated by former President Liamine Zeroual 
1457, This piece of legislation has been called the "continuous journey regulation" 
1458, Guidelines For Voyage Planning,'' which are, in turn, reflected in the local laws of IMO signatory countries 
1459, The Isle of Man has no legislation related to asylum claims 
1460, The law has become the government's primary tool in holding accountable corporations that have defrauded the U 
1461, Mr Yue filed a lawsuit against the bank, claimed that, the bank shall compensate the pecuniary loss, and bear the court fee. 
1462, The term "well-founded fear" has no precise definition in asylum law 
1463, The continuous journey regulation provision remained in effect until 1947, as did most other anti-South Asian laws 
1464, Sims' Case was the first by any court in the United States to uphold the of the Fugitive Slave Act 
1465, These laws effectively required automobiles sold in those markets to be assembled locally from knock-down kits 
1466, In March 2016 the Slovenian parliament passed legislation to quicken the asylum procedures 
1467, the court held that the limitation of expenditures in excess of $1,000, or in any amount, violated the first amendment 
1468, The United States Senate voted unanimously, 76-0, for the most comprehensive automobile safety laws ever enacted in the U 
1469, all passenger ferries are now required by law to contain voyage recorders 
1470, Ashley was also involved in framing the County Lunatic Asylums (England) Act 1828 and the Madhouses Act 1828 
1471, Most likely, though, the court ruling will be the last in a nearly decade-long legal battle in one of Japan's highest-profile cases. 
1472, laws are of ~ application. It is of the nature of our law that it has dealt not with man in general, but with him in relationships. 
1473, All of the Commonwealth realms subsequently passed legislation to implement the change, which fully took effect in March 2015 
1474, Much of this legislation was left for local authorities to implement ? their attitudes affected whether legislation was fully implemented 
1475, Kath sued Glass for defamation but his suit was dismissed by the court 
1476, This practice originally arose out of legislation intended to ensure that the banknotes were uncluttered with a string of plurals 
1477, 49) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, which set out a legal framework for regulating "madhouses" (insane asylums) 
1478, The original aim of this law was to regulate the extra-legal system of subcontractor personnel dispatching that had become commonplace in the automobile and electronics industries 
1479, The law had been changed only two months earlier, allowing for such car fitment 
1480, I was trying to dance into the magic of them, but the magician who want to possession of a lot of things, very easy to dance it away. 
1481, The Wizard was committed to philanthropy and expert showmanship, making him one of the earliest magicians to attain a high level of world renown 
1482, These include Pierre Albanese and glass harmonica player Thomas Bloch live Magic shows since 2008 in Europe and The American Magic-Lantern Theater 
1483, This Magician executed a magic trick which made the man disappear from the stage in a plume of smoke, and reappear inside the movie  
1484, The 720 angle turning and two people hovering in the air have never been done in the illusion performing history. 
1485, The brothers started their performance careers as part of a Russian illusionist?s magic show 
1486, And of course the real magic is that experience that we create together; performer and audience 
1487, Amazing magic skill. Learn how to lift a coin using only a flat palm. 
1488, A magician sets fire after he spills the lighter fluid he used for his trick on himself 
1489, The show featured a variety of magic tricks, stunts and performances, such as a musical performance on wine glasses and an antique acrobatic clockwork doll 
1490, The is a magic trick where it appears that a blade of a guillotine passes through a person's neck without harming them 
1491, Between the 1930s?1960s, movie theaters would have live shows that featured magicians performing magic tricks 
1492, The magician then destroys the box with a hammer to show the boy has vanished 
1493, His favorite magic trick is to make Hostess Fruit Pies appear out of thin air 
1494, there lived a famous magician named Shizaal Rigandi, whose greatest talent was in the creation of magical items 
1495, Liu Qian now enjoys worldwide recognition due to his feats on both stage and TV magic shows. 
1496, Li Ning performing on the stage magic and Western style can do both, focusing on the pursuit of personal artistic image of perfection. 
1497, The birds declared that they were going to do a magic trick and make the audience face the door and disappear 
1498, At age 14, he was regularly working in restaurants and at private events as a sleight-of-hand magician 
1499, Following this, he did a series of magic shows at kid's birthday parties dressed up as Aladdin 
1500, His primary performance expertise is in the field of sleight-of-hand card magic, mentalism, and magic as a communication tool 
1501, The lady used her magic show as a ruse to kidnap the girls since she impressed all the students with her magic tricks 
1502, During a magic show held by the magician and his female assistant, Doc finds Mo bleeding, though the partying onlookers assume the scene to be a prank 
1503, Among his tricks: making a ring disappear and then reappear inside an egg, which he cracked open for the great reveal. 
1504, He meets a magician, Gogo Pasha, who shows him a magic trick by making him move a bottle without touching 
1505, First, a visiting magician came to the island and I went to see his wonderful magic show. 
1506, Cabiria goes to a magic show, and the magician drags her up on stage and hypnotizes her 
1507, Every great magic trick consists of three parts or ACTS. The first part is called "The Pledge" 
1508, They noted times when the system failed to recognize them and they had to call repair workers to fix it. 
1509, Underwater pipeline repair technology and its related problems 
1510, He quit his job tending bar to focus on his repair work 
1511, The car breaks down and the owner of the automobile repair shop puts and end to Rocco's apprenticeship 
1512, He was still smiling when the door opened and his wife came in. She wanted him to repair their grandson's bicycle! 
1513, Maintenance staff is repair the damaged production facilities, refineries will be expected within the next 24 hours to resume operations. 
1514, It will then be shut down for up to a year for maintenance work 
1515, If it is found of any failures, the operators shall stop the machine immediately and notice the equipment repairman to handle. 
1516, He returned to Corinth, and formed an automobile repair business with a partner 
1517, Won Bin graduated from a mechanical high school, where he studied car repair and mechanics 
1518, It also pledged to repair affected devices, refunds on previously-repaired devices, and replacement handsets in some cases 
1519, Intel's Channel Warranty Program is designed to offer consistent, fast and easy to use warranty replacement support worldwide. 
1520, In addition, the repair crews are seeking to get the control rooms of each reactor up and running. 
1521, A particular trade may use a repair kit as part of normal work, such as in watch repair and at automobile repair shops 
1522, Do not attempt to disassemble the phone. There are no user serviceable parts inside 
1523, But don't thought of, when the car arrived maintenance repairs to click maintenance repairs just know upkeep at least up to kilo. 
1524, the product easy to wear and tear parts (alloy seal) is not within the scope of the warranty. 
1525, I can't seem to get my car started, and I need to call a service station. 
1526, When his car breaks down in the middle of a rainy night, a nearby mechanic comes to fix it 
1527, They did not work during the hot summer, during which furnace repair and maintenance was performed 
1528, They help him repair his car and are almost finished when McBride comes to supervise the site 
1529, BE that a tractor is out of order , the tractor hand request got a help and pull to fix factory to fix once. 
1530, He worked as an automobile mechanic and managed his own auto repair business 
1531, The station also used an old boxcar as a tool shed for maintenance 
1532, By the way, the super microwave broke about a week ago and the repair guy said that it will be very difficult to fix it. 
1533, This vending machine is out of order , Get a mechanic to see to it  
1534, He owns an automobile repair center in Irwindale, California 
1535, In automobile repair shops, for decades panel beaters have used surform files and rasps to shape plastic body filler 
1536, automotive engines can be repaired by more-common car mechanics and do not require specialized repair personnel like aircraft engines do 
1537, Also remember that although some of these tools are fairly specialized most of them can be used for general repair chores around the house. 
1538, For example, two automobile repair shops might have the same model of car lift 
1539, Queen Frawbra offers marriage to Hawkmoon but he refuses and, accompanied by Oladahn, begins the return journey to Kamarg and Yisselda 
1540, The wedding was decidedly set at the shore to Aberffraw 
1541, For example, at a Jewish wedding, it is shouted by the couple's friends and family after the ceremonial breaking of the glass 
1542, You?ll laugh and smile as you read this adorable story about marriage and family 
1543, The ceremony, at a Hindu temple in Orissa state's Jajpur district, was conducted with all the rituals observed at traditional weddings. 
1544, I'm constantly amazed at how much some money people blow on the Great White Wedding. 
1545, At weddings the parents of the bride offer the couple a glass of water and a comb 
1546, The legend states that once a king's marriage party stopped at the site to rest during the course of their journey 
1547, moonlit forest attending the wedding of a white rabbit to a black rabbit 
1548, A wedding is celebrated and the bunnies dance under the moonlight with the other creatures of the forest 
1549, Kahola and Suj?t? get married and choose a desolate forest for their ??rama, where Kahola starts teaching disciples 
1550, The boy fell in love at a very young age and wanted marry this girl 
1551, Presiding over the wedding was K?bun Chino Otogawa, a Zen Buddhist monk 
1552, Intercaste marriage, child marriage, marriage of boys to maternal uncles daughter, ''Svayamvara'' marriage (where the bride garlands her choice of a groom from among many aspirants) were all in vogue 
1553, Kokori does not frown at intra-marriage and neither does it not smile at inter-marriage which enhances integration 
1554, Later, Vettaikaaran accepted her love, and Vaidehi made her brother accept for the wedding 
1555, Marriage was not the safe anchorage he had been taught to think, but a voyage on uncharted seas. 
1556, The wedding took place on October 1, 2008 in Ravello, Italy on the Amalfi Coast 
1557, The wedding ends with Arthur smashing a glass with his foot, while everyone cheers, "Mazel tov 
1558, A marriage procession happened to pass through the forest 
1559, Shy smile of a bride in a Hindu wedding 
1560, He made an extensive list setting down the pros and cons of marriage before he proposed to his future wife. 
1561, I was at a wedding with my wife just a few days ago, and we were sitting at a table with several single women. 
1562, The lad was well aware of Mavis and Derek's disastrous first wedding, in which they'd jilted each other 
1563, But her rich father, Mahadevan, arranges her marriage with another rich boy 
1564, he uses this information to determine that she was married for one month before she had the marriage annulled 
1565, On the day of Jonny and Bonnie's wedding Jac delays Jonny by agreeing to perform surgery on Bonnie's brother in an attempt to prevent the marriage 
1566, He married Sarah Mills on 16 January 1773 and settled in Bethnal Green at some distance removed from both madhouse and factory 
1567, The two run hand in hand to the waiting bridal car where they kiss as they are driven away from the abandoned wedding 
1568, many people say that marriage is the tomb of love, but love to rest in peace is better than the street violence better body. 
1569, In Egypt and Sudan, wedding celebrations are traditionally toasted with a glass of hibiscus tea 
1570, The groom, his friends, and relatives come to the bride's house for carrying the bride to the wedding place, in a fancy and luxurious car decorated with bands and flowers 
1571, Where drug company detail people must have known, or at least had a good idea, that Noah was heavily on drugs. 
1572, He said the resistance of the H1N1 virus to oseltamivir was as high as 98 percent worldwide. 
1573, He started the patient on the appropriate antibiotic and within a few days she began to feel better. 
1574, My mom is allergic to penicillin , so the doctor gave her a different antibiotic 
1575, Also, when your doctor gives you a prescription for a new medication, be sure to tell him or her about any other medications you are taking. 
1576, The long-term use of drugs is bound to cause side effects, at least to increase liver and kidney burden. 
1577, The new drug developed by the laboratory is not a panacea for cancer, but it will help in many cases. 
1578, Some of the potential new drugs worked in ways that appeared to be totally different than existing antibiotics. 
1579, The fruit is very bitter, and not usually eaten, but its dried peel is used in Kampo (the Japanese adaptation of Chinese medicine) 
1580, Its fruit is a traditional Chinese medicine called which is used to treat abdominal pain and vomiting 
1581, As the pharmaceutical industry moved away from cure-all patent medicines in the mid twentieth century, Eno Fruit Salt became one of the few surviving products of its kind 
1582, If I take a couple every hour, coupled with some anti-nausea tablets I've thrown in, they should build up in my system after a while. 
1583, As with new drugs, the reversal agents would be a stronger weapon if combined with existing drugs. 
1584, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) considers it to be a first-in-class medication 
1585, Unlike sulfa drugs, penicillin is made up of plant material that the body Can absorb. 
1586, In addition to being used in modern food preparation, sage is still utilized for herbal and pharmaceutical medicines with strong evidence supporting its impacts 
1587, Under it, a Common Drug Review recommends to provincial lists which new drugs should be included. 
1588, FOR thousands of years aspirin has been humanity 's wonder drug 
1589, Key new drugs recommended recently by the WHO were up to four times more expensive than the older drugs. 
1590, It was actually more difficult for the male models than for the female model 
1591, They may not be supermodels, but they like to look like models 
1592, I think I can be skinny to be a male model for sake of super high salary 
1593, This is her last show of waking on the stage, she would no longer work as a model but as a businesswoman 
1594, Better yet, go for modelling classes to learn to walk like a model on the catwalk 
1595, The appearance led to Bracken modeling on the cover of Australian lads magazines 
1596, There were several show-stopping finales at Milan fashion week this season 
1597, She is often credited as the first supermodel; it seems she became a supermodel and went to the very top almost as soon as she was discovered 
1598, Now widely known as one of the world's foremost supermodels, Tyra began her modeling career in the 11th grade. 
1599, T-sets of the original terms for the construction, by means for the fashion show catwalk for fashion models in the aisle 
1600, All models must perform a simulated runway walk for the casting team 
1601, She became known as a glamour model, appearing topless in British lad mags, including ''FHM'', ''Bizarre'', ''Maxim'', ''Loaded'', and tabloids ''News Of The World'', ''The Sun'' and ''Daily Star'' 
1602, The models collected at the agency three hours before the fashion show 
1603, The famous fashion show, with legendary supermodels strutting in lavishly jeweled bras and feathered wings, became a cultural 
1604, Paris, Berlin and some 50 cities across France hope to stage the world's biggest fashion show next week, with up to 10, 000 men and women modelling their own style on giant open-air catwalks 
1605, Manager Gary Naysmith said, "Callum was a popular lad around the dressing room and a model professional 
1606, T stage show is not the patent, see models of beauties is walking toward us, please enjoy the "T stage show" . 
1607, Fortunately, these distractions did not sway her: she roamed the runways for several fall collections and astounded so many that she headlined the Yves Saint Laurent show that same year 
1608, There is a memorial to 23 servicemen who died of wounds while being treated at the nearby Wharncliffe War Hospital which the asylum became between 1915 and 1920 
1609, The monument was originally decorated with blue enamelled tiles that shined like glass 
1610, The idea to create the memorial originated upon the conclusion of the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. 
1611, the memorials erected in its wake became our first national monuments, recording the devastating impact of the war on a young nation 
1612, Aventurine is used for a number of applications, including landscape stone, building stone, aquaria, monuments, and jewelry 
1613, In the early morning hours of June 28, 2017, one of the glass panels on the memorial was smashed with a rock 
1614, It's a historic monument, like a historical landmark 
1615, Until 1997, the municipality of Ringelai in the Bavarian Forest honoured Dietl with a memorial plaque 
1616, A monument dedicated to the slave Burrel Hemphill can be found on the front grounds of Hopewell ARP Church 
1617, After a century, the monument began to show signs of getting worse in conditions 
1618, For in these monuments are chiseled those unlikely stories that affirm our unyielding faith -- a faith that anything is possible in America. 
1619, The subject of the Memorial is the Greek god Anteros and was given the name ''The Angel of Christian Charity'' but is generally mistaken for his brother Eros 
1620, The cenotaph stands as a remembrance of those killed during the war 
1621, A monument was built in honor of the heroes who gave up their lives during the war. 
1622, The monument, built of locally quarried marble, represents a medieval fortress, with stained glass windows and an inner room and staircase 
1623, a monument dedicated to his life and valiant effort in fighting against the mughal invaders is located at panhala fort 
1624, Minaret is an Almohade architecture monument and only remaining jewel of Nazar? period 
1625, In the highest part is a monument to those French service personnel who are buried in the graveyards of North Africa 
1626, The monument has been turned into a shrine to the dead and the missing 
1627, Today a plaque records the details of that day and the memorial is covered with crosses, flowers and poppies. 
1628, The museum houses an exceptional collection of animal and human bones, Neolithic pottery, stone tools and other ancient items recovered from over four hundred archaeological sites since the 19th century 
1629, The museum has conducted several fundraisers for charitable causes, including selling valuable cars from the collection and donating the proceeds 
1630, Golden Bay Museum in T?kaka has a permanent display covering Tasman's journey and a diorama showing the waka ramming the Dutch sailors' boat 
1631, The British Museum has one watercolour of this kind, but her main employment was miniatures for brooches and jewellery 
1632, In the museum you can find many ancient tools from 3,000 years ago 
1633, The American Gem Society commissioned him in 1978 to create a collection of pieces using gems mined in North America, which is now seen at the Smithsonian Museum 
1634, It is occasionally loaned out for display at museums and gem shows 
1635, The work of twenty years' winners of the Overseas Photographer Prize was exhibited in the Tokyo Metropolitan Museum of Photography in 2006 
1636, Her work is included in the collection of Corning Museum of Glass 
1637, These were collectors of such great wealth that they tended to either donate their collections to their favorite local museum or founded their own museum such as the Huntington 
1638, When Joe was at London Central School of Arts and Crafts in the early 1950s, he saw a piece of jewelry titled ?slave ring? at the British Museum 
1639, The control car from this blimp is now in the National Museum of Naval Aviation, NAS Pensacola 
1640, An example of his later stained glass work is in the Kr?ller-M?ller Museum in Hoge Veluwe, Netherlands 
1641, She is an avid collector of gems and her collection is on view at the Perot museum 
1642, The Saint Louis Art Museum, located in Forest Park, houses a variety of art media, ranging from ancient artifacts to contemporary exhibits 
1643, A car used during the annexation of Czechoslovakia and Austria before the war is preserved at the Sinsheim Auto & Technik Museum 
1644, This museum has a fine collection of steles, inscribed with ancient Chinese characters. 
1645, Forest Lawn Museum's art collection consists primarily of original bronze and marble sculptures by European and American artists 
1646, The museum displays objects ranging from pre-historical artifacts to modern jewelry 
1647, The museum also has a collection of automobile related memorabilia and a vintage carousal 
1648, A few trucks from the old DVRR ore cars and caboose are now at the Laws Railroad Museum 
1649, The single Spa car has been until recently kept in the Dutch Motor Museum 
1650, His retrospective exhibition "Gijs Bakker and Jewelry" (and accompanying monography) was on display in various museums around the world 
1651, The museum is a member of the National Association of Automobile Museums and the American Association of Museums 
1652, World Forestry Center Discovery Museum * The World Forestry Center Discovery Museum offers educational exhibits on forests and forest-related subjects 
1653, The museum comprises four buildings: the Dunwich Benevolent Asylum, the main building, the Herdsman's Hut, and a replica of the first Dunwich Post Office 
1654, The Mignone Halls replaced two permanent exhibits, the Guggenheim and Morgan Memorial halls, completed in 1976, which previously displayed specimens from the museum's mineral and gem collections 
1655, The museum resembles the Chinese character ''yong'' (), meaning "city wall", in its ancient pictographic form of the oracle bone script (a square representing walls surrounded by four gateways) 
1656, A museum dedicated to the heritage of the automobile and motorcycle 
1657, In succeeding years, Robbins raised money to acquire the remaining half of the Douglass house, naming it the Museum of African Art 
1658, Art museum in the form of a cube with facade of frosted glass shingles three feet outside building walls 
1659, Nicholas gave it to the newly established Russian Museum, in honour of his father, with the remit that it collect and display domestic art 
1660, Furthermore, the Historical Museum Bamberg has a collection of astronomical and mathematical tools, as well as a compilation of nativity scenes exhibited during the Christmas season 
1661, The jewel forms part of the permanent collection of the Yorkshire Museum and has been included in many public exhibitions since its discovery 
1662, His work has been widely exhibited throughout China, and is collected by several museums including The British Museum, London. 
1663, The car body is still in existence, owned by the Waupaca Historical Society and on display at their depot museum 
1664, Nissan Engine Museum The is an automobile engine museum run by Nissan Motor Company 
1665, Large parts of the collections Retzius acquired during his journey can be found at the Ethnographic Museum 
1666, The archives of this voyage, including the guest book, are held by the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich 
1667, The collection is displayed in the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geology, Gems and Minerals, one of the many galleries in the Museum of Natural History 
1668, porphyry sarcophagi of byzantine emperors on display outside the istanbul archaeology museums 
1669, Today the building houses the Moravian Museum of Bethlehem and contains historic artifacts, artwork, furnishings, clothing, instruments, books, tools, and manuscripts that tell the story of Bethlehem?s founders 
1670, The museum exhibits historic rail cars and equipment 
1671, It is on display in Paris at the National Museum of the Automobile 
1672, It exhibits the museum's collection of hand-tools and household equipment 
1673, This department of the museum is divided in four parts: *The Jewelry collection shows precious objects from stones and gems to metals including gold and ivory jewelry 
1674, In 2021 the museum opened a new temporary exhibition on the history of the cruise and the journey by sea from France to the territory 
1675, They submitted the series to the exhibition of contemporary jewellery (Utst?lling Nutidssmycken 1959) organized by the National Museum of Sweden in 1959 
1676, This included creating a museum in the "Gonzales" area of the madhouse 
1677, Today, the Museum's collection includes more than 20,000 objects that represent voyages that shaped the map and moments that shaped daily life 
1678, The museum also has a surviving copy of the first edition of Maximilianus Transylvanus' work, ''De Moluccis Insulis'', the first to describe Ferdinand Magellan's voyage around the world 
1679, The museum contains a collection of ancient pottery, statues, coins and jewelry 
1680, In 1998 the FIT Museum held a retrospective exhibition of Lane's jewel from the 1960s to the late 1990s 
1681, The museum has a fine collection of medieval ivories. 
1682, The prototype is actually on display at the Gianni Agnelli Automobile Museum in Turin 
1683, In December 2010, the museum debuted a new permanent gallery with special collections of hand, shadow, and string puppets along with programmable lighting and original backgrounds 
1684, A manuscript journal he maintained for part of the voyage is stored at the Natural History Museum in Paris 
1685, A museum opened in 2007, housed in one of the former factory buildings, displaying tools and a significant collection of swords 
1686, National Museum of Chinese Writing (2009) Yang designed the , which opened in 2009 in Anyang, Henan, the home of the oracle bones 
1687, The Museum of Contemporary Art, in Tokyo, Japan sponsored an exhibition called Kazuo Oga ? The Man Who Drew Totoro's Forest from July 21, 2007 through September 30, 2007 
1688, The Single Wing Turquoise Bird Light Show did many of the multimedia light shows at the Pinnacle Concerts 
1689, Evaristo himself, a fan of Elivis, donned a gem studded jumpsuit at the opening of the Concert and impersonated the King performing a medley of his most famous songs 
1690, The tour is filmed and released in 2011 as 3DVD set including a live concert and tour documentary ''Cheers Lad 
1691, productions in the small theater sometimes involved a few orchestral instruments, but often the singers were accompanied only by a piano in the pit 
1692, Banks play there all day during the weekend, but there are loads of performance's at other venues in the area. 
1693, A young girl, standing in the wind, was lost in playing her violin. 
1694,  Many reports described him on stage, strumming one chord through the entire concert, or not playing at all 
1695, The premiere of the Foundling Hospital Anthem took place at a midday concert in the Hospital Chapel on 27 May 1749 
1696, The famous singer is going to give a concert next week and his fans are trying to get a ticket by hook or by crook. 
1697, The concert begins with Jewel as Dorothy Gale singing the complete version of "Over the Rainbow" 
1698, Their idea was to bring delegations of one boy and girl aged 10?13 from different countries to perform an international concert for local audiences 
1699, The first concert featured 72 artists and took place from 12 noon to 12 midnight on 21?22 March 2020 
1700, He performed at one of three concerts at the Gold Coast Convention and Exhibition Centre in 2013 
1701, In June the annual Harry T Ville and the Boys Blues Band concert is held at the old Chinese Hotel 
1702, Concerts were held in Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Czech Republic, Austria, and Netherlands, and included performances from such bands as Manges, Peawees, and Moped Lads 
1703, Volk did return briefly in 1970 to the Raiders, at the request of Paul Revere, for 4 concert appearances during The Raiders tour with The Beach Boys 
1704, August 7, 2016 Taipei Taiwan Taipei International Convention Center Unknown ===3rd concert: BtoB Time=== '''BtoB Time''' is the third solo concert of boy band, BtoB 
1705, The last Jack the Lad concert took place in Redcar in July 1977, although several reunions culminated in an appearance at the Skagen Festival in Denmark in 1993 
1706, They embarked on their first Japanese concert tour T-ara Japan Tour 2012: Jewelry Box in Nagoya on June 19 
1707, On March 7, 2009, Zhang was the opening act for the last Super Show concert in Chengdu on March 7, 2009, singing "I Will" and "The Left Shore of Happiness" 
1708, we all play in other bands, also sometimes together but this one is one of our favorits. 
1709, After Henry gets up on stage during a concert and sings (loud and off-key) one of his Killer Boys Rats songs, his manager phones Henry and congratulates him 
1710, A "Dream Concert" of the extended AVAF followed in August, as did the "Dancing With The Lion Orchestra" concert on the shore of Lake Zurich 
1711, Garth Brooks performed a concert with Jewel from ''Enterprise'' on 21 November while she was docked in Norfolk, Virginia 
1712, The premiere took place in a Macnaghten Concert on 19 January 1962 with Bernard Shore on viola and Eric Gritton at the piano 
1713, That's followed by a musical performance, which includes actors portraying visitors from around the world praising Huaxi. 
1714, Later, ''Love Song - C? M?t Tr?i Th??ng Nh?'' concert was held on 22 August 2017 at Gem Center 
1715, There'll be a laser performance in the concert's beginning, and will be something of an audience participation performance. 
1716, that year a concert by Francis James and his string quartet, consisting entirely of Jones' compositions, was held in Toronto at the Eaton Auditorium 
1717, The music program also includes a concert band, string orchestra, full-size symphonic orchestra, swing and concert choirs, and the aforementioned 2 jazz-bands 
1718, They have performed concerts at Coffs Harbour, and Brisbane, as well as performing as part of the Gold Coast 2011 Big Day Out line up 
1719, The concert included his first string quartet, op 23, and the highly chromatic first piano sonata, op 33 (both composed in 1925)  
1720, I hope that in the distant future to see Justin wireless concert, not the other, as long as the feelings of all his close range 
1721, A US Navy frigate captured her on her third whaling voyage 
1722, The five Coast Guard cutters and five Navy destroyer escorts continuously manned four Market Time stations off Vietnam, while only Navy warships served on two Taiwan patrol stations 
1723, the rn, ran and royal canadian navy also provided many other warships 
1724, Osami Nagano is Chief of Japan's Naval Staff, and last week his Navy was up to no good in the South Pacific. 
1725, In 1946, sailors of the Royal Indian Navy mutinied on board ships and in shore establishments 
1726, James King (1750?1784), a Royal Navy officer who was with James Cook on his last voyage around the world 
1727, In July 1915, Hyde was appointed by the Admiralty, to command the light cruiser , into the Coast of Ireland Command 
1728, La Spezia The Swedish Navy had chartered ''Patricia'' to take the crews for the destroyers from Sweden to Italy, and accompanied them on their return voyage 
1729, On 22 January she passed through the Straits of Hormuz with the British frigate and a US battlegroup centred on the aircraft carrier 
1730, The lad would later change his name to David Glasgow Farragut and ultimately become the Navy's first admiral 
1731, Navy Reserve and its greater integration into the Fleet and shore establishment of the Regular Navy 
1732, only one of the navy crewmen - an anti-submarine warfare technician (aw) third class petty officer sitting in the rear observer seat - survived the crash 
1733, His younger brother, Russell Shore (born 29 April 1949), later became a naval officer and a Master Mariner 
1734, The Coast Guard's legacy missions include: Marine safety, search and rescue, aids to navigation, living marine resources (fisheries law enforcement), marine environmental protection, and ice operations 
1735, The United States Navy, for instance, recently examined a very large number of men working on aircraft carriers. 
1736, Navy began preparations for the establishment of a Naval Auxiliary Force, known colloquially as the "mosquito fleet", for the defence of the United States East Coast 
1737, member of basketball hall of fame *ed gainey, canadian football league player *harry giles, 20th pick in the 2017 nba draft, current nba player for the portland trail blazers 
1738, The 76ers won and ended the Celtics string of eight consecutive NBA championships 
1739, A bond developed between Jordan and Knight, so much so that Jordan invited him to his first Bulls retirement ceremony, in 1993. 
1740, his father is a retired police officer and played basketball for north carolina a&t, where he was named the mid-eastern athletic conference men's basketball player of the year in 1987 
1741, In his debut for the Hawks in their season opener on October 27, Howard grabbed 19 rebounds in a 114?99 win over the Washington Wizards 
1742, The Nuggets had the ninth pick in the 1993 NBA draft, and selected Rodney Rogers out of Wake Forest University 
1743, Bryant wore his Lakers varsity jacket, purple gold. It had several championship trophies across the back. 
1744, fife played one season of professional basketball, in 2002 with the gary steelheads of the continental basketball association 
1745, Meanwhile, in the sports world, many NBA players wore "geek glasses" during post-game interviews, drawing comparisons to Steve Urkel 
1746, each 1979 tournament winner received an automatic bid to the 1979 ncaa men's division i basketball tournament in the same way that the tournament champions of conventional athletic conferences did 
1747, Thrown through a plate glass window, he screamed he couldn't feel his legs and consequently his NBA career was over before it started 
1748, All-Star center Yao Ming is out for the season with a stress fracture in his left foot, a stunning blow to the surging Houston Rockets. 
1749, His father's cousin is former NBA player Gerald Glass 
1750, But LeBron is already a little better rebounder and shot-blocker than Jordan was -- and much more of an inside presence than Kobe can be. 
1751, Grant Hill became the first rookie in professional sports to lead fan balloting for the NBA All-Star Game 
1752, Prior to being selected number one overall by the Spurs in the 1997 NBA Draft, Tim Duncan played at Wake Forest for four years 
1753, The NBA was the first of the major sports leagues in North America to implement a drug testing policy 
1754, His elder brother is Willie Wise, who played seven years in the defunct American Basketball Association and two seasons in the NBA 
1755, Grant's uncle, Horace (twin brother of Harvey), played college basketball at Clemson and was a four-time NBA champion with Chicago and Los Angeles 
1756, For Game 3 of the 2019 NBA Finals against the Toronto Raptors, Thompson missed his first career playoff game after straining his left hamstring late in Game 2 
1757, His brother Jeremy Lin was a professional basketball player in the NBA 
1758, He is the brother of former NBA player Raymond Townsend 
1759, Cartwright was the Bulls' starting center string of three consecutive NBA championships in 1991, 1992 and 1993 
1760, On April 26, 2014 Thorn, on behalf of the NBA, suspended Wizard Nene Hilario from game 4 of the first round of the NBA playoffs 
1761, One of Van Lier's teammates was future NBA player Simmie Hill 
1762, Her brother is former NBA player and now Virginia Cavaliers head coach Tony Bennett 
1763, 7 assists, and led the NBA in triple doubles, sharing 1995 NBA Rookie of the Year honors with Hill of the Detroit Pistons 
1764, Kobe Bryant's bad back might have cost the Lakers Game 4 Sunday, but in the end, it might be the thing that pushes them to a title. 
1765, During the 1995-96 NBA season, when Nelson became the head coach of the New York Knicks, he tried to implement his Nellie Ball system with the Knicks 
1766, He is best known as an NBA player agent, whose clients included Tim Duncan, Hedo T?rko?lu and Ray Allen, as well as former Sun Grant Hill 
1767, During the 2011 NBA draft, the Pacers traded the draft rights to Lorbek, to the San Antonio Spurs, as part of their trade for George Hill 
1768, He is the identical twin brother of Horace Grant, also a former NBA player 
1769, Riley, who coached the Lakers to four NBA titles during the 1980s, implemented a rough and physical style emphasizing defense 
1770, The Lakers said the right ankle Kobe Bryant tweaked during Tuesday night's game was not a problem and that he would play tonight. 
1771, The Pistons selected Grant Hill with the third overall pick in the 1994 NBA draft 
1772, Webster left the team to chase his NBA dream with the New Orleans Pelicans, while Abercrombie was forced to the sidelines to nurse a nagging hamstring strain 
1773, However, that year the Celtics' string of NBA titles was broken as they lost to the Philadelphia 76ers in the Eastern Conference Finals 
1774, James or not, the Heat could emerge as one of the top teams in the Eastern Conference with Wade and Bosh aboard. 
1775, In game 1 of the 2013 NBA Finals against the defending champion Miami Heat, Parker hit a clutch jump shot off the glass with 5 
1776, Do not know when to begin the support of LeBron. James had, May be because he admired Michael Jordan's sake bar. 
1777, Wake Forest made the Final Four in 1962 and through the years, the program has produced many NBA players 
1778, The company currently has expanded into three business areas: electrical appliances, automobiles and new energies 
1779, With the extensive application of renewable energy generation, distributed generation become a new focus in power system research. 
1780, The mission of the Sunseeker Solar Car Project is to design, build, and race solar powered vehicles to advance and demonstrate the abilities of the renewable energy technologies 
1781, Nakate started the Green Schools Project, a renewable energy initiative, which aims to transition schools in Uganda to solar energy and install eco-friendly stoves in these schools 
1782, '''GARN''' is an American alternative energy company and manufacturer of smokeless wood-burning furnaces with integrated hydronic thermal storage 
1783, Lithium is an important material used during the construction of many electronic devices such as electric automobile and other uses related to renewable energy 
1784, Custer is the host site of the annual Renewable Energy and Sustainable Living Fair sponsored by the Midwest Renewable Energy Association 
1785, Our company devotes to the research and development of the highly efficient and clean new energy products. 
1786, Iceland runs almost completely on renewable energy 
1787, New energy finds, unconventional fuel sources and advanced technology are likely to ameliorate the long-prophesied energy catastrophe. 
1788, The foundation worked with Swiss specialists to develop low-cost, cooking stove that relied on renewable energy sources such as methane and biogas 
1789, Wind power, solar power will become the new energy industry, the key development areas of development planning. 
1790, As a clean and renewable energy, the wind power has gotten a quick development and become one of the most promising new energies. 
1791, The cellulose covered into high value-added new energy and new materials is a hot topic. 
1792, The solar energy and biomass energy were the well known type and the next was wind energy. 
1793, Reliable and efficient wind power generation systems development has become the new energy technologies. 
1794, The fleet of electric car is one of the cleanest in the world since about 98% of the electricity generated in the country comes from renewable energy sources, mainly hydropower 
1795, Renewable energies, specifically wind farms are also a rising form of electricity generation in this region 
1796, New and renewable sources of energy because of their lower cost of energy and mineral prices have been a large number of development. 
1797, US concerns about oil availability renewed interest in alternative energy sources 
1798, In order to implement the Strategy of Sustainable Development for our planet, renewable and clean energy have been developed and used. 
1799, The Effect Trace Of Food Nutrition Plan Training And Its Influencing Factors Analysis 
1800, They wandered around the forest aimlessly, gathering leaves and wild fruits for nourishment 
1801, Fortification of food has a clear nutritional targeting 
1802, Ready-to-use-food is usually a sweet spread made with peanuts, dry milk, sugar, vegstable fat, minerals and vitamins. 
1803, Food For The Poor provides, as its main objective, nourishment to the poor 
1804, With this book, Warner hopes to alter children's perception of food and educate them about healthy eating and nutrition 
1805, As mentioned before, food was first and foremost used for nourishment and means of survival 
1806, Too much of a good thing can cause harm: High amounts of vitamins in supplements plus what you get in food can put you over the safe limit. 
1807, Avocados are delicious and highly nutritious fruits and can be used in myriad ways 
1808, Air tight seal keeps in smell, humidity and food nutriments stay in longer 
1809, Health food refers to food products which claim to have specific health functions or supplement one's vitamins or minerals 
1810, Vitamins A, B, C and E contained in a range of fruit and vegetables are all crucial for keeping the skin cells healthy 
1811, If you need a boost of vitamin C, for example, one of the best things to eat are blueberries 
1812, This food reserve provides nourishment to the growing embryo 
1813, Appropriate supplementary protein such as thin pork, duck, goose and quail, etc 
1814, Note: Super Collagen is not a complete protein and should not be used to replace a dietary protein supplement 
1815, the meat is very nutritious, containing many vitamins, fruit is very much a right way, not cold nor hot. 
1816, Melamine has no nutritional value but is high in nitrogen, making products with it appear higher in protein. 
1817, Junk food is low in nutrition, high in calories and almost guaranteed to pack on the pounds 
1818, The product provided inadequate vitamin and mineral supplementation 
1819, The sun's ultraviolet-B rays absorbed through the skin are the body's main source of this nutrient. 
1820, The simple sugars from fruits are important nutrients and vitamins for our body 
1821, She walked with only nuts, honey, raw fruit and vegetable juice for nourishment 
1822, In order for you to benefit from a multivitamin, your body must be able to absorb the nutrients. 
1823, Doctors urged her to eat chicken for protein and take vitamin pills to help her baby, but her stomach wasn't used to them. 
1824, This festive season targets to promote "sago" as traditional food and multi purpose product with full of nutrition 
1825, It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food 
1826, Vitamins (as found in fruits and vegetables, for instance) and minerals like calcium (found in dairy products) 
1827, The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Program (Food and Nutrition Service) was also designed to increase fruit and vegetables available to schools 
1828, Vitamin B-12 is found in green leafy vegetables and other foods, like legumes and citrus fruits 
1829, Powerlifter Charles Teye will be waving Ghana's flag high at the Paralympics in London. 
1830, But as I mentioned the most important thing is the Olympic spirit 
1831, He was no longer a nobody who choked at big events, like the 1988 Calgary Olympics, where he finished an unimpressive 10th. 
1832, Her ambition is to become part of the national team for the next Paraolympic Games. 
1833, The opening ceremony of the 2000 Sydney Olympics featured a sequence with giant Hills Hoist robots roaming around the arena 
1834, Glass made her first Olympic appearance at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, helping Team USA to a silver medal 
1835, He said he couldn't recall an incident like this at past Olympics 
1836, In the Olympic spirit of the infection, we understand the unity and cooperation 
1837, This city have already held the Olympic Games twice 
1838, Right from the venue, volunteers, and other aspects , we can see how much efforts we had put in the Olympic Games 
1839, And he said becoming an Olympic sponsor was a good way to market P&G products. 
1840, For the fourth time in the nation's Olympic history, Ivory Coast was represented by more female than male athletes 
1841, If a sporting spectacle was all that was promised, the games would be an unproblematic affair. 
1842, The Olympics will be on television all round the world 
1843, The 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Mascots have been unveiled in London. 
1844, Secondly, taking stimulants violates the spirit of the Olympic Games 
1845, For China not right we don't have winter Olympics gold medal, the short track was the only sport can have chance get the gold medal. 
1846, Olympic champion Michael Phelps explains the secret of his success. 
1847, In 2004, Wu Man was approached by Glass once again to collaborate on a commission from the Cultural Olympiad on the occasion of the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens 
1848, The preparation paid off: The Japanese took all three medals at the Olympic Normal hill event, Kasaya winning Gold 
1849, Will hold Olympiad , being injured is able to open Closing Ceremony , track and field competition and football match final oersted. 
1850, To overcome the difficulty brought by his small hands which often failed him at critical moment, Yao had kept up his practice for over a dozen years before becoming an Olympic champion 
1851, Blatter was speaking at the Winter Olympics in Vancouver in his capacity as a member of the International Olympic Committee. 
1852, He participated in three Olympics (1998, 2002, 2006) and a string of World Single Distance Championships and World Sprint Speed Skating Championships 
1853, The National Olympic Committee of Thailand fielded a team of 57 athletes, 25 boys and 32 girls, to compete in 21 sports at the Games 
1854, The 2004 Summer Olympics were the first for the island nation of Kiribati 
1855, China has notched this unlikely record in the afterglow of its Summer Games, one of the most extravagant Olympics in history. 
1856, Although it got off to a bit of a slow start, Google's Android mobile operating system has caught its stride. 
1857, How much control the consumer has over the operating systems, hardware, and software. 
1858, But Linux Mint is not just an Ubuntu with a new set of applications and an updated desktop theme. 
1859, Two of the best known are the Console Operating System in VMware ESX Server and Oracle Linux respin 
1860, Google said the operating system was a new project, separate from its Android mobile operating software found in some smartphones. 
1861, The embedded OS in a thin client is stored in a "flash drive" , in a Disk on Module (DOM), or is downloaded over the network at boot-up. 
1862, The monitoring software was developed by the embedded operating system XPE in the virtual instrument development platform. 
1863, BlackBerry phones are much like iPhones in the fact that you can only use BlackBerry OS with an official phone by BlackBerry. 
1864, It is to be noted that microkernel designs vary greatly due to different interpretations of the term 'essential core of OS code'. 
1865, It really highlighted just how much interest surrounds this (relatively) new operating system. 
1866, Ubuntu provides an up-to-date, stable operating system for the average user, with a strong focus on usability and ease of installation. 
1867, Apple also updates the os on two year cycles and is not at all shy about telling developers new way or highway. 
1868, Apple's new version of its desktop operating system for Mac computers is called Mac OS X Lion. 
1869, In a market nowadays dominated by Google's Android, Apple's iOS, and BlackBerry OS, it's pretty easy to overlook Nokia. 
1870, Embedded operating systems become increasingly significant, which run on the resource-limited home appliances and industry instruments. 
1871, Linux has no concept of a "file extension" like legacy operating systems. 
1872, As for the OS itself? It's the best desktop OS I've ever used, stable, configurable , and up to date. 
1873, The supported Operation Systems with FC-NVMe are: Oracle Linux, VMware, Windows Server, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux 
1874, Chef Server is supported on RHEL/CentOS, Oracle Linux, SUSE Linux and Ubuntu 
1875, Apple said the new operating system (OS) is almost half the size of previous versions, freeing up to 7GB of drive space once installed. 
1876, An orphan and good hearted lad Gajendra (Vijayakanth) is 'adopted' and grows up under Azhagarsamy (Sarath Babu) family care in Chennai 
1877, People who want to adopt orphans should have the ability to raise them, Chen added. 
1878, Miss Diana gave away all her castoffs to the little girls in the orphan asylum 
1879, Joseph's Orphan Asylum for boys when it was begun in 1852, she later oversaw the combining of the two asylums in the Cincinnati neighborhood of Cumminsville 
1880, She was separated from her brother in a separate orphanage and her mother until she was eight 
1881, The adoptions, or even a future birth to a family that adopts an orphan, will not face the limitations of the one-child policy. 
1882, He was raised by his father's brother as he was orphaned at a very young age 
1883, So if I wasn't with you they would put you in an orphanage? 
1884, Left by his parents in an orphanage aged three, he ran away at the age of five as he was being bullied. 
1885, According to tea lore, Lu Yu was an orphan of Jinling county (now Tianmen City in Hubei Province) who was adopted by a Buddhist monk of the Dragon Cloud Monastery 
1886, he was raised in an indiana orphanage throughout most of his early life after the death of his father 
1887, My client humbly requests that you manage an orphanage home for her in your country where the less privileged and orphans can come and stay. 
1888, The next day we met orphanage officials to do paperwork 
1889, '''loats female orphan asylum of frederick city''' is a historic home and former orphanage building located at frederick, frederick county, maryland 
1890, In 1956, the Fairview Home merged with the Troy Orphan Asylum 
1891, She, along with her brother and sister, were originally orphans who were slaves and treated brutally 
1892, at the age of three, soiree lost his parents to an accident and was raised in an orphanage along with alba 
1893, Generally, people have become more compassionate , and quite a few families have taken in an orphan from the municipal orphanage . 
1894, Once upon a time, there was a little boy who was raised in an orphanage 
1895, In 1815, after seeing the need for an institution for orphans in Philadelphia, she was among those instrumental in founding the Philadelphia Orphan Asylum 
1896, in Sydney, the Female Orphans' Asylum was established in 1801 and Boys' Orphanage in 1819 
1897, An orphan and good hearted lad Gajendra (Vijayakanth) is 'adopted' and grows up under Azhagarsamy (Sarath Babu) family care in Chennai 
1898, When I was little I would draw all day long like many kids do and my parents enrolled me in a painting academy. 
1899, Painting techniques''' Ellis Rowan painted most of her Queensland paintings indoor, she always worked into the night to drawn plants that she collected on her journey 
1900, One year later, she painted ''Blast Furnaces'', in a similar vein 
1901, To test the power, Ma Liang uses the brush to paint a rooster 
1902, Van Gogh's thoughts returned several times to the painting by Eug?ne Delacroix of Torquato Tasso in the madhouse 
1903, The painting depicts a girl and boy - who is playing a tin whistle - lying on the ground near a lake 
1904, His painting ''Renaud and Armide'' illustrated the death of the Christian knight Arnaud at the hands of the magician Armide 
1905, each shen yun piece is set against a digitally projected backdrop, usually depicting landscapes such as mongolian grasslands, imperial courts, ancient villages, temples, or mountains 
1906, wilson was a talented painter with works appearing in exhibitions throughout the united states, including the cleveland museum of art and the society of illustrators annual show in new york 
1907, There are a wide range of different styles, including paintings, etchings, lithographs and ceramics 
1908, The painting depicts the rooster and the hen to be taking care of the young chick 
1909, He famously remedied the situation by adding a white paper strip and sketching the Eiffel Tower with black stove paint and a broom 
1910, the theme of peace, colour and harmony permeates all of his paintings, many of which depict in watercolour, his specialist subject of the galloway landscape by moonlight 
1911, The lad drew him with a shaving and a drone, and the child gave him the apple 
1912, The Peruvian painter uses his mouth and foot to hold paintbrush. He's won international accolades for his watercolors and carvings. 
1913, The painting brings to mind some of Picasso's early works 
1914, Gifted with a fine and delicate talent, Leray excelled at genre paintings, where coquetry and grace give a poetic character 
1915, In the realm of painting, coloring is an important category in expressiveness and expounding the individuality and nature of the creator. 
1916, From the human body, to landscapes, to oil paint and food items, Liou's works are filled with rich details 
1917, I tease Wraith by occasionally asking, "Does it look like me yet? " a few minutes into a new sketch or painting. 
1918, A watercolour which is thought to also show this cock fight, painted about 1830 
1919, This journey was celebrated with a painting by John Hollins that is now in the National Portrait Gallery in London 
1920, His paintings are contrived and formulaic 
1921, Caproens painted flower and fruit still lifes, garland paintings and banquet still lifes 
1922, Painting depends on imagination. Main details are zigzags, herring-bone patterns, the sun, berries. . . 
1923, When a childhood accident kept him out of school for a year, the boy filled his time drawing 
1924, He was fired in 1890, it was said, for poorly drawing a stove for an could not draw buildings and appliances well 
1925, Watercolour still seems somehow to be the poor relation of oil painting 
1926, Drawing was one of his life?s interests, and he often drew game birds on his trips through the forest 
1927, Are the same painting, the old painter's painting can be called art, it appears to be no doubt. 
1928, If you are a VWP traveler who arrives in the United States without a machine-readable passport or a visa, do not expect to be granted entry. 
1929, Cleutin then travelled to London to obtain a passport and safe-conduct for Mary, Queen of Scots' voyage to Scotland 
1930, Spanish authorities who held him in custody noted he carried a Dutch passport which indicated his date of birth as June 12, 1896. 
1931, On receiving his pardon, Hubbard obtained a passport and, on May 1, 1915, left with his wife on a voyage to Europe 
1932, They were unable to complete the voyage due to visa problems at the border of China and returned to England by sea from Bombay 
1933, About 97 percent of people who are told their applications have been approved get their visas within two or three days, she said. 
1934, She said the visa exemption agreement marked the development of bilateral relations had reached a higher level. 
1935, Moreover, all different Saudi missionaries worldwide are now preparing themselves to implement e-visa application for tourists wishing to visit the country and attend the various activities take place there 
1936, Passengers with a visa issued by and permitted entry by land can obtain a 24-hour transit visa on arrival if continuing their journey by land using the King Fahd Causeway 
1937, His passport request was denied by US consulate due to his slave past and he was unable to return to the United States and died in a debtor's prison 
1938, After receiving the invitation , you need settling passport and visa , and book ticket if you know the time of starting off . 
1939, I can't believe how much red tape there is in getting a visa. 
1940, artsakh permits dual citizenship, and as a result a number of syrian armenian refugees were granted artsakh passports when they immigrated in 2012 
1941, EU members must implement PACE in electronic passports by the end of 2014 
1942, Passports were originally for slave identification, and many whites were offended when they were required to have passports during the War 
1943, He said he had lost his passport and had n't been able to leave the country 
1944, Remember that some countries do not accept passports which have less than six months' validity remaining. 
1945, For the next leg of the journey to the United States and Britain, the Chinese took the position that they would only issue exit visas on the Chinese passports 
1946, take this form , fill it out , and keep it with your passport you'll need it to pass through immigration. 
1947, His first successful patented inventions, patented in 1909, were an heat regulator for more effective control of stove and toaster heating elements and a thermostat for high-tension power cables 
1948, He left the King Automobile company in 1912, however held full possession of his patents 
1949, Has undertaken a number of National Torch Program projects, the company now owns a number of invention patents. 
1950, The results are in the international advanced level, and the national invention patent license 
1951, Van Over patented a kitchen implement called the B?tard Folding Picnic Knife as well as an oven stone for baking bread 
1952, Kaleski is described as a "true bushman and He was keenly interested in agriculture, inventing and patenting a number of new or improved farm implements and practical tools 
1953, mad is the abbreviation of mobile assisted driving which is a patent pending technology to connect cars to the internet 
1954, English metallurgist William Champion is granted a patent for his process of extracting zinc from other materials in a furnace 
1955, The first mechanical shower, operated by a hand pump, was patented in England in 1767 by William Feetham, a stove maker from Ludgate Hill in London 
1956, The Ardis Furnace was initially a huge success, and Jones turned down multiple million-dollar offers for his patent 
1957, Intelligent management of these products is the first in the world, has declared the national and international patents for inventions. 
1958, But they were more properly electric railway patents, the rights to which Electric Car had transferred to GE Auto 
1959, The father took out a number of patents for improvements to agricultural equipment, and the son credits him with being his chief teacher as a boy 
1960, To be patentable an invention must be novel, useful and non-obvious 
1961, A patent claiming an invention that is required to implement a given industry standard 
1962, He applied for many patents, most of them for long-forgotten inventions for buckle-making machines and other tools 
1963, We are authorized by state Intellectual Property Office patents protected by state laws. 
1964, There are also several US patents for using skip lists to implement (lockless) priority queues and concurrent dictionaries 
1965, She specialised on network and security protocols and while working for Oracle obtained more than 50 patents 
1966, was a Scottish chemist who invented an electric furnace for creating phosphorus invented in 1888 and patented in 1889 
1967, patent number "US1636637 A" for the design of a "Combination Tool", a combined measuring and gauging implement for use by mechanics, carpenters and metal workers 
1968, At present, the company owns up to 16 items of machine invention patents and utility patents 
1969, It was a financial success, and Hallidie's patents were enforced on other cable car promoters, making him wealthy 
1970, Having only a third grade education, he obtained more than 150 patents on oil drilling tools 
1971, The company has multiple products with a national invention patent 
1972, patent of a "horseless carriage" and thus, is considered the inventor of the automobile 
1973, In Berlin on 16 March 1910, as a boy of sixteen, Marcel patented a maritime compass that indicates north regardless of the presence of iron or magnetic forces 
1974, At present, our company has declared 11 national invention patents, utility models, a patent. 
1975, Her patented stove contained a "frizzler" which fried without hardening 
1976, She relents after seeing how the boys enjoyed having a pet 
1977, The idea is that they are selling these pets live, selling them as pets essentially 
1978, Product item involves bird cage, dog cage, hamster cage, rabbit cage, cat cage and various pet accessories. In all, almost 300 kinds. The output per month is up to 40 standard containers 
1979, The 2007 pet food recalls involved the massive recall of many brands of cat and dog foods beginning in March 2007 
1980, But Loki seeing a bit of himself in the pup, decided to keep him as his pet and named him Thori after his brother Thor 
1981, I think you should all try at telepathy with your animals, you might be in for a delightful surprise! 
1982, My cousin has a pet rat. It's white with brown spots and it's really fat because my cousin feeds it from the table all the time 
1983, A 95-year-old woman from Havana, Cuba, with her pet rooster Keeping '''chickens as pets''' became increasingly popular in the 2000s among urban and suburban residents 
1984, They clean cages, play with the animals, feed and bathe the pets and take the dogs for walks 
1985, A child first labels the household pet cat as a "cat" and then generalizes this label to other animals that look like it 
1986, Pet stores, pet hospitals and animal training courses are sprouting up to serve China's growing army of pooches and moggies. 
1987, This kind of gold fish is not adaptable to the circumstances, so it is not easy to have it as a pet. 
1988, Exotic pet enthusiasts often attempt to keep Meller's chameleons as pets 
1989, The couple's three cats have been farmed out to friends and neighbors, but Strong's dog, Pepper, is still with her. 
1990, The domesticated budgerigar, a small parrot, is the most popular of all pet bird species 
1991, Hamster very cute, small size, easy to take care of, than a cat or rabbit cheap, almost all day in bed. 
1992, Pet vendors will also offer a variety of dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters , birds and, reptiles for sale. 
1993, Maybe you can't believe it. My favorite animal is a piggy called DuDu. It is a kind of pet piggy, unlike the pigs we usually see in farms 
1994, Manage pet activity, keep dogs and cats out of the woods to reduce ticks brought back into the home. 
1995, A weekend, my father took me to flower and bird market bought a parrot to give me. 
1996, In fact, this kind of pet piggy is clean, loving, understanding and most important of all, very faithful 
1997, I guarantee, " said the salesman in the pet shop, " that this purple parrot will repeat every word it hears. 
1998, Many people like animals and take them as their pets, so pet hospitals are usually very busy. 
1999, Balan indulged in his pastime of animals, birds and wildlife with a multitude of pets that grew into serious hobbies later in life 
2000, People like having small furry animals to stroke, but pets can be expensive to feed 
2001, Break up the day for dogs of any age with a visit from a dog walker or a neighbor, and give your pet access to toys and visual stimuli. 
2002, To help animals is helping people. To many people, a pet is like one of the family. This is often true for older people who are very lonely. 
2003, Actually, I'd like a pet that's a little unusual. I don't' really want a typical pet, like a cat, dog, or hamster. 
2004, we are a small cattery , haven't much kittens. females one year only one litter, males all no stud service. 
2005, There are currently 14 ships and 268 crew being held in pirate-friendly Somali ports 
2006, The possession of goods by Somali pirates aimed for the ransom and the goods were forecasted to be returned through the payment of ransom. 
2007, CATCHING Somalian pirates may be tricky enough, but the question of what to do with them afterwards can be even more difficult. 
2008, The pirates lay waste the sea-coast and burn the ships of the fishermen, and take their nets from them 
2009, This one is a corsair from the Basilisk Islands who believed the Rhoyne would offer richer pickings than the Summer Sea. 
2010, Somali pirates aboard the vessel are said to be demanding a $25 million ransom for release of the ship and its international crew. 
2011, When one of the pirates stripped his shirt off, "he was all bones, no meat at all, " said a Basque crewman. 
2012, A weak government in Somalia is unable to restrain pirate gangs, he said, and ship owners are paying huge ransoms. 
2013, Since then the ministry says it's been confirmed that the boat was hijacked by pirates and was being sailed to the Somali coast. 
2014, The voyage was particularly perilous, his ship captured by a French pirate 
2015, In 1579, during a voyage to Ireland, he chased a pirate ship to the Flemish coast and captured the commander, Deryfold 
2016, But he said the shootings might make the pirates less inclined to attack ships. 
2017, However, pirate activity off the coast of Somalia has jeopardized the completion of the project 
2018, Since he was one of the most famous pirates ever, such a large amount of treasure is not surprising. 
2019, 1370s) was a pirate captain of Bari who become known for raiding ships on the Adriatic coast 
2020, So all the man heading to " The Grand Line" to chase dreams. Then the world started to meet the advent of a great era of pirates. 
2021, The corsair captain and the sailors with painted beards were so funny that people were all laughing until they gasped for breath. 
2022, For the pirates used to plunder one another, and indeed all coast populations, whether seafaring or not. 
2023, Andersen became a pirate who harried the coast of Denmark for years 
2024, potential issues such as meat contamination, lead poisoning from cans and foods treated with antiseptics and chemical preservatives 
2025, Ayyaa catches Vandana and her mother mixing poison into the food 
2026, Lad disappears for three days, reappearing covered in mud but cured of the poison 
2027, One of her sons was diagnosed with lead poisoning when he was a toddler; he apparently was exposed from peeling paint. 
2028, It is not about ensuring that people don't get poisoned: it is about changing their behaviour 
2029, His postmortem showed he died of stomach cancer, but it has been suggested arsenic poisoning or over-zealous treatment was to blame. 
2030, Food that is insufficiently cooked can lead to food poisoning 
2031, The acidity of the fruit caused skin to bleed and resulted in infections including blood poisoning 
2032, The women bring the boy poisoned ''maruya'', they eat and die 
2033, In 1837 Bird took part in an investigation of the dangers posed by the arsenic content of cheap candles 
2034, She carved a bird with a poisoned knife in such a way that only one half of the animal was mixed with the poison 
2035, However, extended use of large quantities of lead on skin causes lead poisoning 
2036, Rescue personnel said that the scene did not smell gas flavor, it is food poisoning or gas poisoning at the enemy. 
2037, Consumption of hot meat is a health hazard and may result in diarrhea and food poisoning 
2038, Both these compounds are toxic, leading to mercury and lead poisoning 
2039, Most people recover from food poisoning after a few days of resting and drinking extra water. 
2040, But a new kind of fruit Happy and Arktos ate has poisoned them 
2041, If it result in toxic reaction, cloves decoction can be used as antidote 
2042, It is reported that this is already two years since the canteen was the third poisoning. 
2043, The poison is in her blood and on her breath 
2044, Forest Service and the Washington State Police pursued Dick, an armed robbery suspect, in their vehicles and finally, after his crash, on foot 
2045, As they talk, two policemen approach and arrest Cordell for a break-in at a jewelry store, where his card has been found 
2046, Pre-emptive arrests and a massive police presence kept would-be demonstrators at home. 
2047, After a car chase and then a foot chase, Mobley turned and confronted police saying he had a gun and reaching for his waistband 
2048, The police arrested for the murder, Carmine Messina on the car owned by Lo Presti 
2049, The policeman followed the thieves until they actually picked up the jewels, when he caught them in the act. 
2050, They escaped in their stolen automobile as two policemen tried to catch them, one on horseback and the other on a bicycle 
2051, Police, agency of a community or government that is responsible for maintaining public order and preventing and detecting crime. 
2052, The Swedish police do not arrest the men right away. They want to catch them selling Wittman the stolen Rembrandt. 
2053, The police ignore Bob and instead take Roger and Wendy with them because the car which Roger recently bought for Wendy to replace the one he sold is stolen 
2054, Three hundred police from Public Security and the People's Armed Police arrested the suspects who set fire to Sichuan Exhibition Hall and robbed the Tiancheng Jewelry store 
2055, Richard Ricci, who worked for the Smarts until he was fired when jewelry went missing, is arrested for a parole violation and the police suspect his involvement in Elizabeth's disappearance 
2056, In March, 1888, Duggan arrested a jewelry peddler, and when the charges were dropped and Duggan was fined $25 for unlawful arrest, he resigned from the police force 
2057, Police: Zhao shisan, Xia zhi xing, we are policemen. Now we arrest you to jewelry fraud. Do not escape 
2058, Do not know the names of the suspects , appearance, age, such clues can be no doubt be the key to solve the case. 
2059, Both of us were able to describe the guns in horrifying detail, but the two policemen who stayed to make the report that would be much help. 
2060, a search in the man's home in yuen long did not provide police with further investigation leads. 
2061, The International Criminal Police Organization also issued a wanted warrant, giving a helping hand. 
2062, Increased interaction between the police and citizens will improve the rate of solving crimes. 
2063, These investigators frequently need months to solve crimes, due in part to the backlog of cases at DNA testing centers. 
2064, The police launched an in-depth and extensive investigation. A medical school professor was invited to come to solve the case. 
2065, The police seized several possessions inside the property, including furniture and jewelry 
2066, Healing thoughs and prayers for her at this time would be very appreciated by her as well. 
2067, For example, in hunger during the famine, it is the strongest desire is to seek food; 
2068, Because of the saint's spiritual presence at his tomb, Sufi pilgrims journey there to pray for them and send blessings to them 
2069, Is that what you think is going on? Well, yeah, We were in a church, and there was a priest. 
2070, He embraced her, solemnly commended her to Heaven, and humbly thanked Heaven for having bestowed her on him. 
2071, Pleasant Tackitt, from the train, was a Methodist minister who led the others in worship and prayer services while on their journey 
2072, A religious booklet with prayers and recollections about Jesus Christ was published by a Franciscan monk in Padua in 1620 
2073, Yogi Chen did not seem scared in the least, and I can only guess that he must have been silently praying. 
2074, The target must be able to hear the Prayer and must believe in the Seven 
2075, When he was very ill, he used to pray alone in his room before burning candles, wound round his head was something like tape. 
2076, I took off the glasses, closed my eyes and put my hands to my face in prayer. "How about, God. . . please, please help us do this. " 
2077, Female pilgrims have come for centuries to call upon the prayerful intercession of the monk saint for their seafaring husbands' safety 
2078, I pray for the New Year to be a year of happiness, prosperity, peace and brotherhood for humanity. 
2079, She went into the church, knelt down and began to pray 
2080, Ari only knew the babyish prayer her mom had taught her to say prior a meal or before sleep. 
2081, Workers take a moment to pray, bending like the palm trees in the wind 
2082, I never stood by the bedside of a godly man who reposed any confidence whatever in his own prayers, or repentance, or religiousness. 
2083, Through the presence of the medal, the driver is asking the Saint to pray on his or her behalf for a safe and uneventful journey 
2084, "We will be thinking of you and praying for you during this holiday season, " he said. 
2085, "You and your wife are in the prayers of me and our church, " he says to Rimney. "Despite of what you may think of me. " 
2086, Keep on praying you will learn that the delay in the answer to prayer is one of the most precious means of grace that God can bestow on you. 
2087, Let us pray for the faith of those who have graduated and may the Holy Spirit quicken them to continue to be part of His Body. 
2088, He told her he had no answers, but he said his prayers were with all Japanese children who were suffering. 
2089, As we pray, are we praying out of a deep sense of need? Or are we merely wanting someone else to see how well we can pray? 
2090, As the number and variety of these soothsaying techniques suggest, we have a deep, probably intrinsic desire to know the future. 
2091, A fortune teller remembers an old prophecy that the son of her erstwhile lover must be bricked up alive in order for the fortress to stand 
2092, Divination: The art or act of foretelling future events or revealing occult knowledge by means of augury or an alleged supernatural agency. 
2093, The oracle predicted that Achilles would die if he fought in the Trojan War 
2094, whereby the magician or priest would observe patterns of oil within water to predict the future 
2095, Over the next few years, the Lord continued to bless me. Everything I prophesied came true! 
2096, This tradition follows a familiar ironic convention: the oracle predicts accurately after all 
2097, The great seers and commentators of our time will doubtless say that this is all to come. 
2098, Both the Old Testament prophet, Daniel, and Jesus speak of a time of great distress on earth that will come just before His second coming. 
2099, Foretelling a major famine, Monk Bhadrabahu, a leading figure of the Jain religion in the kingdom of Magadha in the 3rd century B 
2100, In his theory of relativity, Einstein predicted how black holes are formed 
2101, The oracle delivered to Oedipus is what is often called a prophecy," whereby a prophecy itself sets in motion events that conclude with its own fulfilment 
2102, But there exists an old prophecy of a girl who can defeat the Wizard 
2103, She predicts his journey to Hesperia, Italy and future marriage to another 
2104, The religious leader foretold the arrival of an age of peace 
2105, It has been predicted that the Earth will tilt on its axis,causing catastrophic famine and disease 
2106, She predicted in 1978 that what would replace Taylorism would be the computer 
2107, 2012 is the Mayan prophecy of the end of the world, with the arrival of this day, people must face an unprecedented devastating catastrophe. 
2108, ''The Forest Unseen'' has been translated into twelve languages and was winner, in translation, of the 2016 Dapeng Nature Book Award in China 
2109, The project won in 2007 Cityscape Architectural Review Award (Tourism, Travel & Transport ? Built) and the Cityscape Asia Awards, Best Waterfront Development in 2008 
2110, The association's event became known as the East Coast Music Awards and covered all of the provinces in Atlantic Canada 
2111, Best Restored Beach and Shore == ASBPA presents annual awards for '''Best Restored Beach''' to communities that have recently undergone nourishment or full restoration 
2112, Also in 2007, Burgerville was awarded with the "Better Burger" award at the 1st Annual Food Network Awards 
2113, Off Broadway, he won an Obie Award for his performance in Nicky Silver's play ''The Food Chain'' 
2114, In 2008, Aronofsky received the Golden Lion, the festival's highest prize, for 'The Wrestler. ' 
2115, Tool received their second Grammy Award for the best metal performance of 2001 for the song "Schism" 
2116, The American Society for Horticultural Science awarded Sweetheart their Outstanding Fruit Cultivar award in 2012 
2117, President Bush attends the presentation ceremony for the National Teacher of the Year Award in the Rose Garden during the morning 
2118, Despite this, the tour was a critical success, winning "Most Creative Stage Production" at the 1990 Pollstar Concert Industry Awards 
2119, In 1999, Heck?s ''The Asylum Volume 1: The Psycho Ward'' was nominated for the British Fantasy Award for Best Anthology 
2120, the wildcat san pablo creeks watershed council won the governors environmental and economic leadership award in 2003 
2121, It is also the last car that Mears drove to his final career podium finish 
2122, In 2007 she was again honoured at the Golden Rooster Awards when she was given a lifetime achievement award by the China Film Associaction 
2123, Both albums were nominated for an East Coast Music Award for Country Album of the Year 
2124, It also won the Game Boy categories for Graphics and Sound, Challenge, Theme and Fun, Play Control and Best Overall in the reader-chosen 1993 ''Nintendo Power'' Awards 
2125, The Flaming Lips also won the same award for "The Wizard Turns On 
2126, This prestigious award is designed to raise public awareness of modern-day slavery 
2127, Hill Memorial Awards for outstanding food service in the Navy and Marine Corps 
2128, The song "Say a Pray'r for the Boys Over There" from ''Hers to Hold'' was nominated for Best Song at the 16th Academy Awards 
2129, The trial, along with his work on the pollen count, was one of the contributing factors to Frankland being awarded the EAACI Noon Award for significant contributions to immunotherapy 
2130, In 1936, she received the travel scholarship Tagea Brandts Rejselegat, a Danish award for 
2131, He was ''"the first Filipino to receive the Rolex Award for Enterprise"'' in 2008 for his invention of a low-cost and environment friendly rice husk stove 
2132, The series aired from 1965 to 1971, and Crane received two Emmy Award nominations 
2133, Twin brothers Tyler and Justin Donati are the only brothers to win the award 
2134,  In 1952, the Western Holly stove received a design and color award 
2135, He was nominated for the 1989 Anthony Award in the "Best Paperback Original" category for his novel ''High Noon at Midnight'' 
2136, Each prize recipient will get a grant of Taka 750,000 to implement their project 
2137, In 2013, Boyd was among the recipients of the Grammy Award for Best Historical Album for ''The Smile Sessions'' (2011) 
2138, She was honored in 2006 at the Palm Beach International Film Festival, receiving the Cross Over Award 
2139, It won the trophy again in 1912 for incorporating electric starting and lighting in a production automobile 
2140, He was also supposed to receive a leadership award from the Incarnate Word Foundation in the same year, but he died the morning before the ceremony 
2141, The restoration was undertaken using local expertise and The hotel was the winner of 'Sri Lanka's Leading Boutique Hotel' at the 2010 World Travel Awards 
2142, He also won the sports car class Alpine Cup trophy in the 1951 ?sterreichische Alpenfahrt rally driving a highly modified Renault 4CV 
2143, The Genesis has received a number of well-recognized automobile awards worldwide 
2144, It was the first time in the modern era that a mid-engined car had won a grand prix 
2145, The Sonora Review Chapbook Prize, the Hart Crane Memorial Poetry Prize, and a 2007 Ohio Arts Council Excellence Award in Poetry 
2146, The extensive beach by the village was awarded the Blue Flag rural beach award in 2005 
2147, In the 1930s and 1940s he won several prizes in puzzle contests, including three automobiles 
2148, This car won the "Best Suspension Award" which was judged by Terry Satchell 
2149, In 2003, he was given the Outstanding Professor Award by CSU-Long Beach 
2150, During the competition, she was crowned Miss Beautiful Smile and won the Beauty with a Purpose award 
2151, Recent awards include best clam chowder, cookware, day spa, gym, jewelry store, martini, mojito, pizza topping, shiatsu, teeth whitening, thai food, and many more 
2152, The award honors Missouri-born ceramist, jewelry designer, and glassmaker, Glen William Lukens, of the University of Southern California in Los Angeles 
2153, He was rewarded the Silver Antelope Award and the Silver Beaver citation for his involvement with the Boy Scouts 
2154, The car won the prestigious Gran Turismo Trophy at the 2012 Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, meaning it will eventually be re-created for use in Gran Turismo 6 
2155, It has a small beach which was awarded the Blue flag rural beach award in 2005 
2156, Lutheri Furniture Factory *2018 Wood Awards from the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association 
2157, Haynes Distinguished Lifetime Achievement Award in Agriculture, Food and Human Values from the Agriculture, Food and Human Values Society 
2158, In 2013, Gaia Repossi won the "Best jewelry designer of the Year" award at the Elle Style Awards 
2159, Upon graduating in 2002, she was presented with the Roy Crane Award by the University of Texas 
2160, The award was designed to acknowledge the talents of those journalists whose lifetime of contributions have helped enrich the world of automobiles 
2161, In 1992 the Branch received a Sydney Morning Herald Community Service award for Narrandera Shire 
2162, In January 2011, Asylum Street Spankers won the 10th Annual Independent Music Awards in the Gospel category for ''God's Favorite Band'' 
2163, Since the inception of the Award in 1999, numerous books on the subject of modern-day slavery have been submitted, but Kara's book was the first to be awarded the prize 
2164, On August 26, the Jonas Brothers co-presented an award with Miley Cyrus at the Teen Choice Awards 
2165, Kate Hudson accepted the Universal Smile Award for her long time support with Operation Smile 
2166, Forest Service National Grasslands Prairie Partner Award in 2005 
2167, The same year she was also given the Cyclist of the Year Award for the work she's done to promote cycling and cycle travel 
2168, In 2019 TimeBlock won Global Health and Travel Awards "Product of the Year" award 
2169, Gumaan feigns mental illness and is transferred from jail to a mental asylum, where she finds her rival, Saras's mother Saraswati who is alive and suffering amnesia 
2170, Cartwright also proposed "dysaesthesia aethiopica" as a mental illness that caused laziness among slaves 
2171, In the United States it was proposed that black slave who tried to escape were suffering from a mental disorder termed drapetomania 
2172, She did not take us to an adoption agency, in fear of being locked up in a mental hospital for her severe depression. 
2173, While Vinod was away to get some food, they try to make Ria understand that Vinod was a psychopath 
2174, The home had been a community rehabilitation center for people socially and vocationally disabled by mental illness. 
2175, The first wife Catherine committed suicide in an asylum 
2176, Hannah suffered bouts of mental illness and was committed to the Cane Hill Asylum at Coulsdon 
2177, He was diagnosed with Bipolar I Disorder. This disorder is a form of severe psychosis, with a very slim chance of recovery. 
2178, One of the first patients I encountered was a woman with severe psychotic depression. 
2179, At the end of 1916, his brother Ernst died after a time of mental illness in the Waldau mental home 
2180, Wilson's friends, family, and colleagues later referred to its recording as heralding his period of psychosis and the unraveling of the ''Smile'' project 
2181, Rowling as a deranged, food-obsessed psycho who keeps Alan Rickman prisoner in her basement 
2182, the spiritual reasons: schizophrenia, reflecting the nature of mental illness is often accompanied by insomnia and mental illness. 
2183, Di Chirico was confined to the Provincial lunatic asylum for his mental illness 
2184, Sister Jude (Jessica Lange), now known as "Betty Drake", slips further into insanity at the asylum 
2185, Like his older brother Isaac, suffered from mental illness and was "in and out of mental institutions" for much of his life 
2186, He became famous, but also became ill and depressed, then paranoid and suicidal, dying at the asylum of in Passy in 1893 
2187, Diagnosed as schizophrenic, he spent two years at the Menninger Clinic, a Topeka, Kansas psychiatric institution 
2188, In addition to building a private psychoanalytic practice, he worked as pathologist to the Toronto Asylum and Director of its psychiatric outpatient clinic 
2189, Sylvia has a secret, after the car crash her husband went insane and is now in an asylum 
2190, This seems to reflect how much the modern psychiatric professions' drive to categorise mental illness has permeated our cultural lives. 
2191, The term lunacy was replaced by insanity and the institution where such persons were treated became known as a hospital for the insane rather than an asylum 
2192, he usually wears an overly forced smile, but when mad his face changes to one of a furious psychotic killer 
2193, His mental disorder led his younger brother, Laurence, to obtain a commission of lunacy against him 
2194, He pleaded insanity and was confined to the Sainte Anne asylum 
2195, The psychoanalytic theory became popular among psychiatrists because it allowed the patients to be treated in private practices instead of warehoused in asylums 
2196, Forest Service for several years before suffering a second psychotic episode 
2197, Used for injection between cooling walls and furnace shell. 
2198, He worked there for a year, where he practiced furnace-working and cast Corning Code 7056, a specific type of glass that can form bonds with a metal alloy called Kovar 
2199, Water-based hydraulic systems Water-based hydraulic systems traditionally have been used in hot-metal areas of steel mills. 
2200, The other carries the image which is printed onto the glass with an iron oxide pigment and fired in the kiln 
2201, Louis, Missouri, started manufacturing a vertical cast iron stove 
2202, Cementation furnace The '''cementation process''' is an obsolete technology for making steel by carburization of iron 
2203, Iron smelting took place in the valley during the late 1800s and an old iron furnace is still present within the watershed 
2204, steel making production was put into operation at Azovstal, the first in the USSR 250t tilting open-hearth furnace came into commission 
2205, Melting in an electric arc furnace can be used to produce small ingots of the metal without the need for a crucible 
2206, Calver Hill was a Bole hill a place where the lead from the mines was smelted in an open air furnace which used the prevailing wind to increase the heat 
2207, The abbey owned a prototype blast furnace at Laskill, producing cast iron as efficiently as a modern blast furnace 
2208, The converter sludges come out of the dedusting system during the production of steel making. 
2209, Those who have seen a steel mill will know something of variety processes , from the blast- furnace onwards ! 
2210, The first blast furnace of the metallurgical works produced steel three years later 
2211, Copper anodes (98% Cu purity) emerged from the furnace as an intermediate product 
2212, Graphite Electrode is mainly used for steel-making in electric furnace, mineral hot furnace and electric resistance furnace. 
2213, The is responsible for pumping the air into the smelting furnace and then the copper hammered into thin plates 
2214, Cornwall Iron Furnace was capable of producing 24 tons of iron a week 
2215, Rolling bars in Irondale The first iron-producing blast furnace in Washington Territory was completed in Irondale in 1881 
2216, Displaced hope: Hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees have fled the fighting in Mogadishu since civil war broke out in 1991. 
2217, And when he had spent everything, a great famine arose in that country, and he began to be in want. 
2218, One in every 113 people globally is an asylum seeker or a refugee 
2219, This is important as the mortality rate after a new displaced person influx may be higher than under normal conditions. 
2220, Displaced person health care must include preventive and curative measures 
2221, In the realistic life, people always took the pine and cypress as food in the years of famine. 
2222, The resulting famine killed tens of thousands across Western Europe, including up to a quarter of Iceland's population. 
2223, In addition, organizations should work together to ensure a fair distribution of available services at all displaced person camps. 
2224, Inexplicably, the city suffered sudden and violent collapse in about a. d. 600 and much of the population fled. 
2225, Once a serious famine happen, the people leave immediately, flees from famine 
2226, Help is also needed for communities around the camps, and for the refugees who return home 
2227, Somalia refugees were told to go to the Dadaab Refugee camps, which aid agencies say are already overcrowded. 
2228, Of those trying to get into Italy across the Mediterranean, a high proportion were always political refugees. 
2229, according to the united nations, palestinian refugees struggle with access to health care, food, clean water, sanitation, environmental health and infrastructure, education, and technology 
2230, at least three thousand of these refugees being jewish, including four rabbis and nearly 1,000 unaccompanied children who were taken from polish orphanages in the soviet union 
2231, Scouts helped refugees by collecting donations and food for the refugees and Scouts served in refugee camps 
2232, The organisation provides support and advice to refugees and asylum seekers, as well as support for other refugee and asylum seeker organisations 
2233, Lala's family has come to a camp, one of many near the Turkish border 
2234, as many as 1,000 refugees arrived, attributed by german sources to a jewish organization which was responsible for smuggling jews into the country 
2235, The United States Committee for Refugees and Immigrants says refugees face mistreatment and a lack of assistance in many countries. 
2236, Shouguang opened a refugee center to provide displaced persons with food and shelter 
2237, Funds are dwindling and the refugees keep pouring in 
2238, Sick and starving refugees are the flotsam and jetsam of war 
2239, These first camps catered for two groups of children: one for at-risk boys from Melbourne, and another camp for refugee children who had escaped with their families from communist Vietnam 
2240, pangalengan became a major site for the placement of refugees (internally displaced persons, or idps) after the large west java earthquake in september 2009 
2241, However, there has been a slight dip in the total number of refugees worldwide on 2009 levels. 
2242, The amount of compensation can also be calculated based on how much the copyright violator profited from the infringement. 
2243, Almost immediately, he began speaking about suing Hu for copyright violation, and made a number of very cutting remarks about him. 
2244, Therefore , the intention of damage as one of part of tort action is consisted with that of the damage in the compensation of tort. 
2245, According to the complaint, Warner systematically misused the copyright infringement takedown tool (SRA) Hotfile had built for them 
2246, there was no recourse for a claim without a writ, the claim did not exist 
2247, In response to perceived wide-scale copyright infringement, copyright owners began to implement technological locks and digital rights management 
2248, unison'' (1986) became a landmark case in establishing that the look and feel of a software product could be subject to copyright protection 
2249, Later, Oracle and SAP agreed to limit the scope of the trial to solely the copyright infringement claim and the damages 
2250, In 2010, Oracle sued Google for copyright infringement for the use of the 37 Java packages 
2251, The State shall adopt measures to protect consumers in the legal exercise of their rights and shall safeguard consumers' legal rights and interests 
2252, The car manufacturer blamed Jiangling for copyright infringement and unfair competition 
2253, In 2012, Robinson (along with Block Entertainment & Bad Boy Entertainment) was sued by local Atlanta record label Master Mind Music, for breach of contract and copyright infringement 
2254, Now, rights management is no longer simply a question of ownership. 
2255, Torts comprise such varied topics as automobile accidents, false imprisonment, defamation, product liability, copyright infringement, and environmental pollution (toxic torts) 
2256, o'brien also asserted the ownership over the means of production ought to be extended to women's rights to maintain authority and control over their children 
2257, To protect his work from copyright infringement, he retained the original glass plate negatives of his photographs, giving him more control over their use 
2258, Within the warranty time, if the defective rate more than8%, we keep the right to ask you to return the defects. 
2259, The latter EP was withdrawn from availability, presumably due to copyright issues involving Buck's sampling of the Bronski Beat single, "Smalltown Boy 
2260, She is a soldier for the cause of women's rights 
2261, We will energetically overhaul and standardize the market, and earnestly protect consumers' rights and interests 
2262, setting up an elaborate security system protecting the Crown Jewels from attempted robbery 
2263, A pair of thieves were planning to rob the bank. 
2264, Petey and his boss Rita rob a jewelry store in order to raise the money to pay off Mina 
2265, He meets Shi Jin, who has become a highway robber to obtain money for his journey home 
2266, Zhang robbed the Chongqing Friendship store, killing one person and stole gold jewelry worth 455,000 yuan 
2267, Link's goal is to grab a Force Gem and carry it to his base 
2268, Thieves robbed the bank and got away with a large amount of money. 
2269, He was convicted of the January 1927 armed robbery of a Philadelphia A&P food market 
2270, A robber demands that Donald hand over the ring, but the boys save their uncle from the robber's clutches 
2271, Their first attempt was less than successful as they failed to agree on who would collect valuables from the passengers and who would rob the mail car 
2272, Following the explosions in the town centre, groups of robbers looted the shops. 
2273, After the bank robbery they lay up in a basement for 2 weeks 
2274, His peaceful world is ripped apart when two bandits burst into town and rob a local store 
2275, A neighbor boy stops by to tell Amanda about an attempted bank robbery 
2276, The robbers were armed to the teeth when they robbed the bank. 
2277, To pay off his debt he and Ben devise a plan to rob an armor car carrying his jewels 
2278, After breaking up with his girlfriend Caitlin Boyd, he returned to a life of crime and robbed jewelry stores with his high school friends 
2279, The brothers committed hijackings and armed robbery throughout the rest of the decade 
2280, Another Chinese colleague was robbed by knifepoint at a nearby gas station a week later, but she refused to report the crime. 
2281, Following the explosions in the town centre, groups of robbers looted the shops 
2282, When the day of the robbery comes, the brothers put their plan into effect 
2283, The man said he robbed banks because that is where the money is. 
2284, A delivery boy enters their home to rob it, but finds himself trapped when the door is suddenly locked 
2285, A man in Delaware, USA tried to rob a bank by handing a teller a note that said he wanted all the money. 
2286, Soviet partisans regularly raided nearby villages to rob the locals of food stock, cattle, and clothing 
2287, His peaceful world is ripped apart when two bandits burst into town and rob a local store. 
2288, Granny May and her timid (and enormous) grandson Eugene rob an armored car in broad daylight 
2289, They devised a scheme to use explosives to rob the delivery car on a freeway offramp 
2290, His two elder brothers-in-law rob the gem from him and give it to the king 
2291, They have been used to sterilise things since the 19th century, but steaming municipal waste in them is a new idea. 
2292, With that level of object churn going on there was no question that garbage collection was going to be a problem. 
2293, Please don't litter any inorganic garbage pieces, not even a piece of a candy wrapper, and bag them back into a garage bin. 
2294, They eke out a precarious existence foraging in rubbish dumps 
2295, Then, a forest ranger comes to visit them and informs them about recycling and trash cans 
2296, The compression of the refuse soil is due to the combined influence of the self? weight and the organic matter degradation. 
2297, I thought the remarkable tidiness must have owed much to a great number of dust bins on the street. 
2298, Waste seperation is not an issue that cannot be resolved by placing several different rubbish bins along the street. 
2299, But there would have been a huge garbage hill if we had pieced together all the thrown things. 
2300, like most crows, they will scavenge at landfills, scattering garbage in the process 
2301, covanta supporters say burning trash to produce energy is an way to produce power and dispose of garbage that would otherwise fill landfills 
2302, Doing garbage classification in a right way can turn waste into wealth, which will benefit us a lot 
2303, Broken down by type of e-waste, the report estimates e-waste generation today as follows 
2304, City residents separate organic waste from their garbage, bag it, and then exchange it for fresh fruit and vegetables from local farmers 
2305, With the garbage of a thousand neighbors to deal with, everyone realizes the importance of sorting their rubbish! 
2306, We will see where the city workers sort all of our garbage for recycling 
2307, '''smelly garbage''' ? each team has a pile of garbage and an identical assortment of trash cans and bags, each a different size 
2308, If you see someone littering, we will promptly stop him, and told him to do so is wrong. 
2309, You don't have to climb into a garbage bin. You don't even have to get your hands dirty 
2310, Among the rubbish, I found a sign which said, 'Anyone who leaves litter in these woods will be prosecuted! 
2311, The general wastes are the recycling goes into the two bins that are on the footpath beside the road. 
2312, House hold waste include: recycled rubbish, kitchen waste, harmful rubbish and other waste. 
2313, If your hotel doesn't recycle, consider taking your empty bottles or other items home with you to recycle them there. 
2314, Then we started to pick up the litter. Afterwards, we put the rubbish into the nearby recycling bin and non-recycling bin respectively. 
2315, Garbage classification means the classification of recyclable and unrecyclable garbage. 
2316, Various estimates place the quantity of waste paper tossed into U.S. dumps and landfills at 35-40 percent of total landfilled mass 
2317, this is partially caused by restaurants and hotels that leave rubbish everywhere since there are few garbage bins in the region 
2318, First, the food waste, then general rubbish, then stuff for recycling, like paper and cans. 
2319, Lots of garbage is dumped on the dump 
2320, They sort waste so carefully that even plastic bottles and their caps go into different bins 
2321, After a while, a disabled person picked up the banana skin from the ground and put it into the litter bin. 
2322, The dustbins clashed as people emptied rubbish 
2323, In some of the most prosperous cities, government officials recently began to penalize those who fail to sort their trash properly. 
2324, The ground is covered with the day's refuse -- nut shells, fruit rinds, chopsticks, cigarette butts , plastic foam bowls. 
2325, Besides them, there was a cruise on the Thames River, a visit to the Tower of London as well as a walk through Piccadilly Circus. 
2326, During the prolonged voyage the young traveler was able to study the romantic scenery and the people of the country 
2327, Floating mines were common sights at this time off the east coast of Korea in the Wonsan-Hungnam area 
2328, him permitted to travel throughout the country, painting and recording the American scene 
2329, the journey from Portland to the summit and showed many of the sights along the way 
2330, The landscape is dominated by the foothills of the Great Dividing Range and features sandstone gorges and eucalypt forest 
2331, The greatest sight in the village is that of the hill itself, with its spectacular 60?70 m high basalt organs 
2332, Here, the natural scenery, four seasons beautiful scenery 
2333, The journey traverses the Valley and offers incredible views from start to finish, providing an incredible opportunity to see rural Nepal 
2334, The ridge (plateau mountain) Kinnekulle is a popular tourist attraction near the south-eastern shore of V?nern 
2335, The coast is named for the historic metal-mining industry, the legacies of which now constitute a tourist attraction 
2336, The landscape around it is characterised by streams flowing through meadows, surrounded dense forest 
2337, My hometown is by the side of Yangzi River, with a beautiful scenery, long history, so many monuments and attractions. 
2338, River engineer for its dramatic chasms, its spectacular canyon and beautiful landscapes in their journey of 135 miles to its mouth in the Patia River 
2339, situated at the heart of the sun moon lake , lala island is a popular attraction not to be missed. 
2340, It is a scenic spot that represents the beautiful scenery of the hills of Biei, Hokkaido 
2341, A boat excursion will also offer many viewpoints for photography of water and shore birds and landscapes 
2342, It is spread all over, criss-crossing Harbor, excellent ecological environment has been identified as one of the attractions Lake. 
2343, The unsettled hills of the Vorberge are crossed by several forest tracks and hiking trails which enable visitors to explored the wooded landscape 
2344, The View from the hotel room and balcony was superb, overlooking the pool and up and down the river. 
2345, Australia's image in my mind is eyeful of green, rich in natural resources, beautiful scenery, diverse wildlife 
2346, The research of postgraduates is often supported by money from public purse 
2347, Among many, the journal paper, Car Parking in Cities, was published in 1963 in the Town Planning Review 
2348, SNPO prepared a full environmental impact study for the upcoming Nuclear Furnace tests 
2349, The research of scientists is often supported by money from foundations 
2350, Shelf life studies often use taste, sight, and smell (in addition to food chemistry and toxicology tests) to determine whether a food product is safe to consume 
2351, Research in space science, as well as advancing technologies, produces the ability to implement missions for NASA 
2352, The bodies of these hen-rooster hybrids, or gynandromorphs, have a mixture of genetically male and female cells, the research reveals. 
2353, One count is the National Audubon Society's annual Christmas Bird Count which provides researchers data on winter bird populations across North America 
2354, The foundation also funds PPP2R5D research, spanning diverse model systems from alpacas and fruit flies to patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells 
2355, The rat findings have been replicated many times and extended to creatures ranging from yeast to fruit flies, worms, fish, spiders, mice and hamsters 
2356, At the Institute, Yamashina conducted research into bird taxonomy based on chromosomes, and wrote numerous technical journal articles and books on ornithology 
2357, They seem to be the only group carrying out such systematic studies in this area, and are certainly the only ones publishing their work. 
2358, The angle-measuring technique related is a research program with new principle and new method, which had been examined and appraised. 
2359, Peninsula D has also become the site of a comprehensive bird research station, run by the TRCA 
2360, It started its Research and Development Laboratory in the field of gem stones in 1976 
2361, This research became the science of particle physics, the crown jewel of which is the standard model of particle physics, which describes the strong, weak, and electromagnetic forces 
2362, The sample primarily studied came from the Gem and Mineral Collection of the Department of Geosciences at Princeton University 
2363, Also belongs to this Campus Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INTA), located in Macul, space for postgraduate teaching and research 
2364, For many years researchers have been investigating designs that might be able to provide such protection by incorporating liquids 
2365, By 1942, Crane was working as a Research Zoologist, still with the Department of Tropical Research, who at this time were working in Venezuela 
2366, The fruit of his research is latanoprost, the medicine for glaucoma 
2367, Within a few years, he would be accepted into scientific organizations like the Geological Society and the Royal Society. 
2368, Research by Kenrick and Crane that established the concluded that none of Banks' three groups were monophyletic 
2369, '''Memory studies''' is an academic field studying the use of memory as a tool for remembering the past 
2370, In his early career, he co-authored journal publications on the effects of the pesticide DDT on breeding bird populations 
2371, At 229 gross registered tons she is the largest active tall ship on the West Coast 
2372, In late December 1903, the Gem suffered an accident when the rudder chain jammed, resulting in the vessel running at full speed into a gum tree on the Victorian bank 
2373, The former RoRo ship uses Bunker C heavy-duty oil and one voyage produces an estimated 5,682 tons of CO2 
2374, His brother John worked with him on the same ship 
2375, Under the logistical plan, three Liberty ships carrying civil affairs food supplies were to arrive at five-day intervals between D plus 40 and D plus 80 
2376, It became evident that the flyboat could be used advantageously in certain bulk trades where the danger of piracy was low 
2377, The ships finally began their return voyage to Germany on 24 May, and reached Kiel four days late 
2378, She made two voyages as a slave ship in 1806-7, and then later made several voyages as a whaler 
2379, Prior to the escape, the boats had to be fuelled with a large amount of diesel and stocked with enough food to sustain an eight-day voyage 
2380, The boat had been brought to a beach at Willoughby Spit in Norfolk, Virginia 
2381, The wreck was identified in 2011 as the whaling sailing ship ''Two Brothers 
2382, Ship breaking is a type of ship disposal involving breaking up ships for scrap recycling, with the hulls being discarded in ship graveyards 
2383, The first steamboat to journey up the upper-Missouri River was the ''Yellowstone'' which arrived in 1832 carrying 1,500 gallons of goods and liquor 
2384, The ship was sent back to the west coast for repairs but returned to duty in April 1944 
2385, Despite turning away the shore boats which approached the anchored warship bringing fresh bread and fruit to sell, word eventually leaked out that Napoleon was aboard the ship 
2386, The vessel capsized off the coast of Florida killing at least 9 people 
2387, The boats reached speeds of , and although 14 journeys were made each day, no damage was caused to the canal banks by their wash 
2388, They were long and had a flat bottom so that the boats could come close to shore 
2389, The ship participated in the fruitless advance to Norway on 23?25 April 1918 
2390, big piece of cloth on the mast of a boat to catch the wind and move the boat forward. 
2391, The ship was pushed toward the Jersey Shore and ran ashore on Squan Beach 
2392, Ships and vessels were also asked to return to shore quickly 
2393, ''Agincourt'' served twelve years at Portland, as a depot ship for boys 
2394, The northern end of the graveyard The abandoned and decomposing vessels, mostly cargo ships and tugboats, come from "all decades of the 20th century" 
2395, A ship carrying her jewels to France sank en route 
2396, This latest boat was a further improvement on The Five Brothers 
2397, Yeoward Brothers had a previous ship called that was built in 1885 and sunk by in 1917 
2398, The world soon learned it was one of the fastest sailing ships ever built. 
2399, he was accused of attempting to smuggle $65,000 worth of cash and jewelry into the country, but no charges were ever filed 
2400,  Congressional fired its architect Keith Foster after he pleaded guilty to smuggling items made from endangered species, migratory birds, and other wildlife 
2401, Logs are commonly cut on the Burmese side and then smuggled to processing facilities in China or Thailand 
2402, In order to avoid paying Canadian excise tax on imported alcohol, they hired individuals to smuggle the liquor over the border by automobile 
2403, During this time, he pursued and captured ammunition smugglers and served on border duty 
2404, In 2021 it was reported that large quantities of Ugandan sugar were being smuggled into Kenya through Busia 
2405, In January 1994, he began a prison sentence of four years and eight months for illegally smuggling a Mercedes-Benz car into Ankara 
2406, Some exotic animals like rare species of birds, were smuggled out and sold in the black market 
2407, Kingsley was attempting to smuggle in 350 slaves 
2408, Sarah perfects her plan to smuggle Saffron into Siena in her car and Saffron is forced to agree by her sisters and brother 
2409, The four lads hatch a plan to smuggle the heroin out of Norway by putting it inside the elephant 
2410, Other than wood, the secluded beaches were known to attract smugglers trying to offshore their goods and enter Mumbai by road to avoid customs 
2411, it began to ship great quantities of Florida cotton and lumber, and became a resort for the smuggling business and contraband slave trade 
2412, The prevailing smuggling trend indicates that the carriage of unmanifested cargoes by small motorized sampans is now increasingly popular. 
2413, The smugglers were not opposed at any stage of the journey 
2414, financial circumstances force a young boy to become a smuggler from India to Bangladesh 
2415, Jamil become the foremost smuggler of the country's rare gems and minerals, raking in over $300 million 
2416, Stretching along the border with Guatemala, the birds are smuggled and then sold for high prices on international markets 
2417, He is considered to be the first generation of major Mexican drug smugglers of marijuana,also the first known drug lord to use an aircraft to smuggle drugs to the United States 
2418, one of the cars among the rally race cars : A blue Maruti car is being used to smuggle gold 
2419, Smuggling high precision tools and weapons (such as jewel bearings, diamond dies, and chronographs) to Britain took place on a large scale 
2420, After finding a smuggler, Taimoorazy was smuggled from Iran to Switzerland, then from Switzerland to Germany 
2421, Trafficking of the birds (as for exotic pets) is illegal in many nations, but the species are still smuggled into the United States from Mexico 
2422, Other British soldiers are also being used to smuggle valuable jewel from Europe into England, where it can be sold profitably 
2423, This sculpture was constructed in the courtyard and lifted by a crane to its current position 
2424, Four twenty-meter tall statues of Ramses guard the front of the temple, which is carved into the side of a mountain. 
2425, After a month of burying the statue all over her lawn, she had no nibbles and in disgust put the statue out in her trash. 
2426, At the former graveyard at the church, a stone sculpture of a lion holding a hare in his paws was found 
2427, Likewise most of the images or sculptures of Lord Muruga is having Vel in one hand and cock flag in other hand 
2428, The statue represents a university student who, while reading a book, lets wisdom flow into his head as liquid from a glass 
2429, Recently she found a black virgin statuette cemented to the rock face 
2430, SCAM1 was the first automobile sculpture of the art history 
2431, The centerpiece of the library is a two-story glass blown sculpture named "Fiesta Tower" 
2432, We've already looked at portrait sculpture which are busts created to commemorate people who had died, and we've looked at relief sculpture, or sculpting on walls 
2433, The statue was put up in 1912, witness to the popularity of a remarkable man 
2434, Statue of Diana The statue of Diana is in the car park to the south of Lytham Hall 
2435, Four tons of ice were used to sculpt two three-meter statues of aman and a woman holding a baby. 
2436, The statue has the body of a human standingupright with two bird like heads, looking in opposite directions 
2437, It was the statue of a prince. The statue looked very handsome, and the little mermaid was very curious about it. 
2438, The statue is a copy of a 1712 sculpture by Francis Bird in Carrara marble which formerly stood at the same location 
2439, each sculpture is an tall statue of bronze, copper or concrete 
2440, Similarly, the late Uruk period shows the first monumental art, relief, and statuary in the round, made with a degree of mastery that only a professional could have produced. 
2441, The statue ''Night'' holds an owl, while ''Day'' holds a rooster 
2442, The beatific Baekje smile found on many Buddhist sculptures expresses the warmth typical of Baekje art 
2443, Lady Brandon reads aloud Beau's letter, which reveals that he stole the gem because he knew it was a fake 
2444, However, people make fun of his good looks and steal fruits and vegetables 
2445, He was a good accountant before he blotted his copybook by stealing some money . 
2446, It like to climb trees with its claws to steal bird eggs 
2447, She went out with the door unlocked although she knew clearly that it would result in theft. 
2448, When Charlie tries to steal the money, John attempts to stop him from doing so, leading to a brawl between the brothers 
2449, In 2019 some graveyards in Henan province resort to CCTV cameras and concrete coffins to prevent thefts 
2450, Unable to find him, the two steal a crane truck and drive it back to Pirate's Cove 
2451, The theft may take place at any point in the parcel's journey from source to destination, including theft by rogue logistics employees and customs agents in international mail scenarios 
2452, Pistone went under the name "Donnie Brasco" and posed as a jewel thief 
2453, Vervet monkeys frequent the site, stealing food and drinks from guests 
2454, Gein admitted to stealing from nine graves from local cemeteries 
2455, While returning to the Thieves' House, they are ambushed by both the Gray Mouser and Fafhrd simultaneously, who steal their gems 
2456, predatory birds may compete by stealing food from one another while migratory birds cooperate 
2457, I locked up the document for fear that it (should) be stolen 
2458, One bird might distract while others quickly steal food 
2459, The jewel thief takes on the job as a hotel maid, going into others' rooms and stealing their prized jewels 
2460, The story opens as Chris desperately considers stealing food from a stand near a shrine entrance 
2461, He is the least educated of all his brothers and was always worried about one of his brothers stealing his inheritance 
2462, All sorts of signs indicated that this larceny possibly is in the thief behavior 
2463, Seymour Magoon testified that he stole the car used in the murder on Reles's orders 
2464, When a priceless Christmas relic is stolen, the trio come together and track down a mysterious jewel thief 
2465, It took 28 hours for museum officials to realize that the painting had been stolen, not just temporarily removed for photography or study. 
2466, Jimmy began stealing food from people dining on rooftops scaring people in the process 
2467, He began his life of crime at an early age, stealing a bicycle from a boy in North Wilkesboro N 
2468, The boys succeed in stealing the truck and they temporarily park the locked truck in a desolate area while they look for a purchaser for the stolen goods 
2469, With Al McWhiggin stealing a highly-valuable pull string Woody doll from Mrs 
2470, Two strangers steal a car in western New South Wales and drive around the coast 
2471, Speed states that he learned to drive a Scorpion during his time in the Territorial Army, at which point the lads steal it and drive it back to London 
2472, The boys set out one night to Wellington Academy, the current trophy holder, to steal it 
2473, He leaves Otto's home but returns later to steal valuable jewelry 
2474, One murky night in Lankhmar, Fissif and Slevyas, members of the Thieves' Guild, steal some valuable jewels from Jengao the gem merchant 
2475, I doubt my lad ye hae ill sped Of stealing o the Wanton Brown 
2476, A jewel thief by nature, Python is fascinated with?and enjoys eating?precious gems of all kinds 
2477, The boy starts living expediently and gets involved in petty theft 
2478, Mr Adams was shocked when he found that his thirteen-year old son stole money from his wallet. 
2479, On the evening before the rebellion, a slave was arrested for theft and interrogated 
2480, He was falsely accused of stealing a jewel from a merchant 
2481, Although crimes like theft have been on the rise in recent years it appears as though their incidence is now widespread. 
2482, Bourke was sentenced to three years in Daingean reformatory in October 1947 for stealing bananas from a lorry 
2483, During the first term, the trio break into the office of Severus Snape and attempt to steal the sword of Gryffindor to help Harry on his journey 
2484, money being short, they decide to break into a slave trader's warehouse to steal some cash 
2485, " where he attempts to steal a gem from Batman in Atlantis, but is foiled 
2486, These funds allow investors to purchase gold bullion as effortlessly as a share of stock. 
2487, The company is listed on the stock exchanges of Frankfurt, New York and Stuttgart (stock exchange symbol DAI). 
2488, The plunge has slashed the savings of millions of Chinese investors who jumped into the market as it rose six-fold in two years. 
2489, Consider the case of a stock exchange that uses algorithmic trading for entering automatic buying or selling orders. 
2490, Then,the whole thing blows up and all the Bear Stearns stock is worth just about nothing; so, that's the kind of mistake you don't want to make. 
2491, It has not investigated whether bullish investors and executives talked bank share prices up in the good times. 
2492, most jurisdictions now require corporations to maintain records of ownership or transfers of shareholdings, and do not permit share certificates to be issued to beare 
2493, With more investors coming to believe that the beginning of an economic recovery is approaching, stocks have been advancing. 
2494, Investors purchase funds because they do not have the time or the expertise to manage their own portfolios. 
2495, Selwyn Gishen is a trader with more than 15 years of experience trading forex and equities for a private equity fund. 
2496, Disastrous was the way one trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange described the drop in US shares on Thursday. 
2497, It sent out a message saying it would no longer allow quotes from Arca to be automatically routed from the NYSE. 
2498, If parents begin to invest in stocks, their grown children are about 30% more likely to buy stocks over the next five years, he found. 
2499, A former hedge-fund manager who made a fortune shorting stocks has switched to the long side, and is raking in money in the process. 
2500, The stock market used to be a human scene of men shouting price quotes and making trades on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 
2501, Flotation The process of changing a private company into a public company by issuing shares and soliciting the public to purchase them . 
2502, Well, I'm learning. I've recently become a stock broker. Buying and selling stocks is my job now. 
2503, Members of mutual funds lump their money together and have a mutual fund manager buy stocks. 
2504, It is to our advantage to have securities do nothing price wise for months, or perhaps years, while we are buying them. 
2505, No matter how big the profits of the stock market, stocks are not borrow money, should not all the money invested in the stock market. 
2506, He also spent several years in the 1980s and early 1990s at the New York Stock Exchange working with Asian stock listings, he said. 
2507, Now some of the early gainers are running out of steam, which can be a sign that the bull market is aging. 
2508, When investors buy stocks, they usually expect to receive a dividend, but they also hope to make a capital gain. 
2509, In the late 2000s, Chaikin started the company Chaikin Stock Research, in order to provide professional grade stock tools to individual investors 
2510, Asian shares were lower while U. S. stock futures were pointing to a bit of a rebound after a sharp sell-off on Wednesday. 
2511, The office became busier and busier. Orders to buy and sell came and went like birds flying. This was the stock market, the world of money. 
2512, is not like buying bonds. Bonds represent a loan. Equity represents ownership 
2513, The carnage on the Tokyo stock exchange has forced the government to consider buying shares to prop up the market. 
2514, Typically, stock-market gains are one of the most bullish leading indicators, and yet economists are marking U. S. growth figures down. 
2515, "We never buy stocks when we see prices soaring. We buy stocks because we are confident of the company's growth, " he said. 
2516, AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in London, Paris, Switzerland and Tokyo. 
2517, Support all valid stock symbols, at least for the provider's stock exchange. 
2518, however, in 1986, after a major storm devastated the islands, many Uros rebuilt closer to shore 
2519, By the middle of July, a total of 10 storms had formed with another tropical storm forming off the coast of Central America roughly every 10 days 
2520, She was driven on shore on 26 October at Jackson's Dam, Liverpool during a gale 
2521, Her second voyage in 1874 was to New Guinea to assist with surveying, but she caught caught in a storm and had her rudder damaged 
2522, Severe storms battered the ships on the voyage to and from Spain 
2523, She said she sailed through Drake Passage during a gale face storm 
2524, The journey was without incident until 600 miles from the Cape of Good Hope where she ran into strong winds 
2525, Before noon on 8 March, Gafilo arrived at the Mozambique Channel as a moderate tropical storm whose strongest winds were located in the northern sector 
2526, After making landfall, Marty turned back to the moving parallel to the eastern coast of the peninsula, and weakening to a tropical storm on September 23 
2527, This expedition did not seriously affect Trebizond itself, but attacked Trebizond's dependencies in the Crimea and was partly destroyed by a storm on its return journey 
2528, It rapidly weakened to a tropical storm and remained in that intensity until it further weakened on the midday of the same day below gale-force winds 
2529, Even when the thunder and storm begins. I'll be standing stong like a tree in the wind. 
2530, but on the return voyage, Shelley's yacht capsized in a sudden squall and he and his friend were drowned. 
2531, The storm caused flooding in several Jersey Shore towns, including Wildwood, North Wildwood, Sea Isle City, and Ocean City, with streets covered in water and some road closures occurring 
2532, Midday on August 4, the JMA classified Janis as a severe tropical storm 
2533, Rapidly weakening, Frances fell to Category 1 intensity around midday and deteriorated to a tropical storm about six hours later 
2534, The coast of Karnataka was buffeted by high winds and heavy rain, while waves with heights as high as tall drifted through the Arabian Sea 
2535, Still, the rough surf produced by the passing storm resulted in the second largest swell along the northwestern coast of Tongatapu in 25 years 
2536, On an ocean voyage bound for Australia with her Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, Dorothy Gale and Toto are swept overboard in a storm 
2537, Strong winds were blamed for the accident which happened from the shore of Lake Malawi 
2538, The thunderstorm developed a circulation about 24 hours later, and was thus upgraded into a tropical depression a few hundred miles south of the Mexican coast 
2539, At least 25 people have been killed as violent storms lashed northern Europe, causing travel chaos across the region. 
2540, Around midday on November 8, the storm curved westward while approaching Belize and strengthened into a Category 2 hurricane 
2541, The wind began to blow harder. A storm was coming. The waves grew bigger and bigger. 
2542, It was as if the wind and rain had lulled at last, after a long and fearful storm. 
2543, Octave weakened to a storm at midday on September 14 and a depression 32 hours later 
2544, 1527 November upper Texas coast If this storm occurred, then it would be one of two November hurricanes to hit Texas 
2545, Thunderstorms began to redevelop near the center, and by midday on August 23 Dom was a tropical storm once more 
2546, Around midday on September 13, the storm strengthened into a Category 5 hurricane, based on the anemometer at San Juan observing sustained winds of 160 mph (268 km/h) 
2547, Post-storm analysis from the JTWC indicated, however, that the depression had attained tropical storm midday on October 3 
2548, One death was indirectly attributed to the storm when a man drowned in rough surf off the Texas coast 
2549, Alberto strengthened steadily over the Gulf of Mexico, and by midday on July 3, it peaked as a strong tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 km/h) 
2550, Similarly, as I sat amidst the lightning, thunder, wind, and rain, I calmly observed its presence, but I chose not to identify with it. 
2551, In mid-September, a tropical storm moved up the Baja California coast 
2552, I think she must have got heatstroke. The temperature was too high these two days, many people also had these symptoms, due to the weather. 
2553, If you ran around like a typical Londoner for a week or two in the Philippines, you'd most likely die of heat stroke and exhaustion. 
2554, Braving the sun every day, stand Junzi take the goose, sweating, there are a lot of heat, but I still suffer. 
2555, In a few documented cases users have died as a result of dehydration and heat stroke . 
2556, The large number of people who lost consciousness because of heat syncope overwhelmed emergency medical technicians 
2557, The biggest killers in the desert are heatstroke and dehydration, which come on very quickly. 
2558, A person suffering heat exhaustion feels weak and extremely tired. He or she may have trouble walking normally. 
2559, Ellison died at home from heat disease on December 6, 1924 
2560, Fell dead from his horse, attributed to heat stroke, near Manila on February 5, 1899 
2561, So what can you do to help prevent heat stroke and other heat related illnesses? 
2562, almost 5000 people suffered from heat stroke and heat exhaustion, particularly the elderly 
2563, eight subjects had heat exhaustion . one had heat syncope 
2564, This old man suffered from heatstroke on a hot sunny day 
2565, But, when the temperature gets above 40 degrees Celsius, he said, more athletes could face heat stroke 
2566, Heat exhaustion may also produce a feeling of sickness, a fastheartbeatheartbeat, breathing problems and pain in the head, chest or stomach. 
2567, Sunstroke is caused. By exposure to the sun and characterized by a rise in temperature , convulsions, and coma . 
2568, Longtime activity of exposing the old to the scoring sunshine without a straw hat and a gentle-colored dress can suffer heatstroke. 
2569, Overexposure to the sun can be the cause of heatstroke, when the body stops perspiring and body temperature rises dramatically. 
2570, Heatstroke is the most dangerous condition, where the body can no longer control its temperature and people become confused, disorientated, have fits and fall unconscious. 
2571, Heatstroke occurs when normal body mechanisms cannot keep the body's temperature in a safe range. 
2572, the following afternoon, he was in a coma and a doctor had diagnosed him with "hyperthermia, probably secondary to heat stroke" 
2573, In summer, those sweating much could drink some salty soda to prevent sunstroke. 
2574, The best way to avoid heatstroke is to stay out of the sun (or any hot confined place) and drink fluids regularly. 
2575, If symptoms of heat stroke, should be out in time hot environment, to the cool place to rest, take some drugs like Shi Dishui. 
2576, Debility caused by exposure to heAT and humidity, usually for many hours, called sunstroke when caused by direct sunlight. 
2577, '''heat stroke''', also known as '''sun stroke''', is a type of severe heat illness that results in a body temperature greater than 
2578, Hoppner's artistic and creative talents were useful during these voyages 
2579, He was judged to be inferior in talent to his brother 
2580, Then he discovered the hidden talent of voicing and dubbing and gradually embarked upon that journey 
2581, Zhang is talented but I was not prepared for what I was going to see in that studio. 
2582, His father encouraged his artistic talent and enabled him to take a round-lhc-world journey of several years after graduating from college. 
2583, The monks observe Obadiah has extraordinary control over his body, a natural talent for martial arts, and flawless skill with a bow and arrow 
2584, This lad has remarkable talent and will do big things, mark my words 
2585, Though there is no questioning the composer's musical genius, his reputation is clouded by his virulent anti-Semitism. 
2586, As a child , sculptor Anne Whitney showed a high-level intellect and artistic talent 
2587, It is said that the brothers inherited their fathers talent for drawing and poetry 
2588, He received his early schooling from a maternal aunt and had a gift for mathematics, as did his younger brother Hans, who became a distinguished astronomer 
2589, as a boy ten or eleven years old, was admitted to the Conservatoire without question in view of his talent 
2590, They are likely to have artistic talent, or at least great interest in art, architecture, and design. 
2591, Early in the voyage he decided that he could write a book about geology, and he showed a gift for theorising 
2592, (acquire) Generally speaking, one's gift for language is born with instead of being acquired. 
2593, The project primarily included holding talent searches with the intent of identifying gifted youth, particularly in the area of mathematics 
2594, Second, the basis for nomination into a program for gifted children is high intelligence. 
2595, Joseph music natural gift is extremely high , more erudite than his elder brother and. 
2596, He is a composer, with special artistic talent creates special artistic achievement. 
2597, Different hypotheses may explain part of the language-learner's gift 
2598, In fact, she stated that as a child she had a gift for telling stories, but that she demanded all her audiences be boys 
2599, Whether they?re talented mathematicians, show a flair for literature or are flourishing artists, these kids all have the potential to go far" 
2600, He is an extremely talented craftsman and very gifted in experimental science 
2601, These birds are traditionally fed by the temple priests and arrive before noon to feed on offerings made from rice, wheat, ghee and sugar 
2602, On the grounds of the Senso -ji temple in Asakusa you will find an beautiful example of a five storied pagoda which is the most common. 
2603, It started from Silla and Goryeo Dynasty that monk formed and administrated tea forest around the temple and it passed down as their possession 
2604, Tibet is often associated with the scent of burning incenses and ever-lit butter lanterns in monasteries 
2605, From his savings, like a bird and also with donation from devotees he slowly started to construct the temple like 
2606, For instance, the Fire Temple was based on the Yellow Crane Tower, as its flame-like architectural elements were a perfect motif for the Fire Nation architecture according to the creators 
2607, StLouis Cathedral was built on Byrsa Hill starting in 1884, atop an ancient temple 
2608, Several inscriptions suggest that the temple of Endovelicus was used as an oracle 
2609, The Temple might also have offered asylum for those threatened with arbitrary arrest by patrician magistrates 
2610, He himself donated a large amount of jewelry and utensils to the Puri temple during the 41 anka of his rule 
2611, This serial is a journey on the life of Swaminarayan, which includes places of worship and temples in India and around the world 
2612, A slave could claim asylum in a temple or at an altar, just like a free man 
2613, A wizard arrives by canoe at the burned ruins of an ancient temple 
2614, It was a custom to serve food in a patravali for guest meal or celebrations, temple prasadam 
2615, The two brothers are said to have distinguished themselves as architects, especially in building temples and palaces 
2616, The Temple of the Six Banyan Trees, the Buddhist temple, was built in 537AD to enshrine Buddhist relics brought over from India. 
2617, The river Mahi is worshipped by many people and has many temples and places of worship along its shore 
2618, Most of the devotees attend the temple during the midday and in the evenings 
2619, The popular Tirumala Venkateswara Temple is located on this hill 
2620, On Sundays, many temple goers bring food to be donated to the monks 
2621, The emperor Xiaowen is said to have ordered the construction of a temple, deep in a mountain forest, in honour of a wandering Indian monk. 
2622, This temple is known to be the family temple of brother of King Janak, King Kushadhwaja 
2623, Near the northern shore of the lake lies Jade Islet, on which the Temple of the Jade Mountain (''Ngoc Son Temple'') stands 
2624, The Sam Poo Kong temple in Semarang was built to commemorate Zheng He's voyage to Java 
2625, In Korea, a crane dance has been performed in the courtyard of the Tongdosa Temple since the Silla Dynasty (646 CE) 
2626, Located in the east of Kyoto sound plume mountain water temple was built 1200 years ago. 
2627, There stands a great temple on the top of that hill 
2628, One of the wooden pillars in the mandapa is used as the oracle pillar in the temple 
2629, The gems in this temple are the four small towers and one main tower that build the Temple 
2630, One day a section of the divided group came to the temple at noon 
2631, The next day, this person has encountered difficult for it to Kuan Yin temple. 
2632, He opens it and is moved to find that it is the toy sailboat that he had wanted as a boy 
2633, There is no exact date for when the first hula hoop was made, but it seems to be an ancient toy. 
2634, Rag dolls made by American slaves served as playthings for slave children 
2635, Lego products had previously been marketed towards both boys and girls as far back as 1958, when Town Plan toy sets featured images of boys and girls on the boxes 
2636, Play with blocks or Lego. Make people you know or build familiar places 
2637, After 20minutes, the little boy picked up a toy plane, walked up to my Dad and said, "how much for this, Mister? " 
2638, I come from the fourth grade five, my name is john, I was 10 years old, and I like dolls and yo-yo 
2639, As children, the brother and sister fought over a toy 
2640, On the seat opposite me sat my big rag doll, Nancy, in a new gingham dress and a be ruffled sunbonnet, looking at me out of two bead eyes. 
2641, She still remembered her own kindergarten classroom from 1985: it had a sandbox, blocks and toys. 
2642, They can play with a multitude of toys ranging from strings, to small furry toys resembling prey  
2643, the Crusader 101 was easily among the largest and most detailed toy cars on the market 
2644, The pinball machine features a shaker motor, two captive balls and a crane toy 
2645, Here smaller items such as tops, ball-in-cup, yoyos and toy cars are made in wood along with utilitarian and decorative items for the home 
2646, Our daughter is playing with her baby doll on the living-room floor 
2647, The name is derived from the toy yo-yo which goes up and down a string 
2648, While the yo-yo today is a toy for kids, it didn't start out that way 
2649, Toys in the form of a flying model bird are also popular 
2650, And in one Yorkshire factory, toy-hungry fathers discovered that its basic product, round doorknobs, could serve a new use as yoyo s. 
2651, One very traditional toy were hens and doves whose heads and tails move when a ball attached to strings extending underneath is swung 
2652, The toy can be configured to create other animal sounds such as the meowing of a cat, the sound of a bird, or the bleat of a sheep 
2653, The puppets' designs include glass eyes and accessories like hats and hairpieces 
2654, it was just . a baby doll . she was pink and soft and beautiful 
2655, The children had a lot of fun with the building blocks 
2656, these toys were marketed primarily towards young boys 
2657, A large number of terracotta animal and bird figurines were meant undoubtedly to be children's toys 
2658, They were the best because if you got all six of the toys together, you could make Devastator. One of the best Transformers toys ever. 
2659, This toy was also sometimes known as a '''cock horse''' (as in the nursery rhyme ''Ride a cock horse to Banbury Cross'') or '''stick horse''' 
2660, As he walks away he smiles & places his hand on the toy camel that is he now has attached to his belt 
2661, Ha ! They are all lovely, How much is the panda toy? 
2662, The different toy varieties such as the spinning tops, rattles, and animal figures brought a smile to every child's face 
2663, I would also like to give him the yo-yo, which I saw him admiring at KB Toys. 
2664, Finally blankly smiled and looked at the little dolls that little doll is what I want little guardian angel. 
2665, One time, he rear-ended a guy on the 101 freeway, and just left the scene because the guy got out of his car and started screaming at him. 
2666, According to the traffic police introduction, neutral will lead to the car braking distance taxi, easy to extend the collision. 
2667, After leaving school he joined the Royal Air Force, but in 1994 a motorbike accident left him paralysed from the waist down and he was invalided out of the force 
2668, On the midday of the day he proposed, Amy and her fiance Nick were involved in a serious car accident 
2669, A call is placed about a road traffic accident on Shore Road 
2670, After breaking up with her boy, she becomes drunk and is a victim of a car accident she causes, and dies 
2671, In 1991, Haggerty was again hospitalized after a motorcycle accident left him in a coma, recovering with no aftereffects 
2672, He was involved in an automobile crash in 1976, during which he was driving 85 miles an hour while drunk 
2673, He is then seriously injured in a car accident while driving under the influence of narcotics 
2674, And right next to me here, is a giant articulated truck that's been picked up, turned over, crumpled in the front end, and smashed in, too. 
2675, The story is about a girl named Nasrin who suffers disfiguring injuries in a car crash 
2676, On his way to the 1992 Gen Con/Origins game fair, Scott died in a car accident 
2677, In 1980, Puerto Rico was moved by the media news coverage of her death which resulted from the injuries sustained in an automobile accident in San Juan 
2678, Both Russell and Hammett visit the site of the Russell family car accident 
2679, In 1976, under the influence of alcohol, Schmitzer caused a car accident in which a pedestrian died 
2680, red Mazda 6 because of excessive speed, collided with the vehicle in front, a powerful shock of the impact body is torn 
2681, A speeding, drunk driver rammed into his car at an intersection 
2682, Silla containers station train crash of 2010 April 8, 2010 Silla (V) 1 0 Crash of a train in manoeuvres into a string of containers cars 
2683, But a motorcycle accident from the days and the Council, Natalie was seriously injured and was taken to hospital. 
2684, She gets distracted when the Wesen is revealed to be in the car and hits a person and crashes the car 
2685, Following the crash, Stone and her boyfriend are thrown from their respective cars in slow motion as they float in the air with tiny pieces of glass around them 
2686, In Tivoli, on a walk to the river at noon of September 21, 2008, Zimmer was struck by a car 
2687, But they get into a horrible car accident on the way and Ana is left in a deep coma 
2688, However, his brother's death certificate states he died in a traffic accident in the countryside 
2689, A 51-year-old resident of the Mahabage area died in a multiple vehicle collision caused by a 16-year-old driving a luxury car 
2690, A three-year-old German boy caused two car crashes within a week - and was driving both times. 
2691, While speeding on a dense forest road, the women are blinded by sunlight, and Valerie loses control of the car, crashing 
2692, In August 2008, Arnold broke his scapula in a motorcycle accident on the Pacific Coast Highway 
2693, A severe consequence could be resulted from an accident due to gas leakage from tank of passenger car in a high speed rear-end impact. 
2694, In 2009, Rupp's body was found behind the wheel of his Mercedes in the Danube river in an apparent car accident 
2695, He suffered permanent spinal chord injuries after a traffic accident in 2007 
2696, As a result of the driver's momentary carelessness, there was a serious accident. 
2697, When Tara suffered a neck injury from a car accident, he refused to take her to the hospital 
2698, Drink-drivers, people who ran red lights, and hit-and-run drivers were also involved in many accidents, said the statement. 
2699, His only son, the poor lad, died in a fatal traffic accident 
2700, A truck lost control coming down Greenmount Hill and rolled over at the intersection, after crashing into six vehicles on the hill and another 14 at the intersection 
2701, One night, on their way to school, the brothers and Yui get involved in an unexplainable fiery car crash 
2702, Most of the crashes have involved heavy goods vehicles which are not able to slow down sufficiently to make the sharp bend after picking up speed on the hill 
2703, Sabadell train crash of June 1920 June 21, 1920 Sabadell (B) 5 3 A runaway string of freight cars collided with a freight train 
2704, In his junior year, Superboy again feels helpless when he isn't present to stop an automobile accident involving Ducky, caused by his own drunk driving 
2705, She was seriously injured in a car accident in December 2015, and therefore uses a wheelchair 
2706, He died on 29 July 2012 as a result of injuries sustained in a car crash in the Stony Hill area of Kingston, aged 44 
2707, In 1954, he sustained a cervical spinal cord injury in an automobile accident and was paralyzed 
2708, He later broke his hip in an automobile accident in 1951 
2709, He has been driven mad by the deaths of his wife and son, who were killed in an automobile accident earlier that morning 
2710, At the age of eight, she was struck by an automobile in front of the family home, and her legs suffered multiple fractures 
2711, My car bumped against someone when I was driving 
2712, Miscarried her first child in a car accident with Vince 
2713, A woman died in a traffic accident, attributed to wet road conditions, along the Bundesstra?e 303 in the Bayreuth district 
2714, A van coming from the opposite direction crashed into her vehicle's driver side, and she suffered a bruised heart, a bruised spleen, a sprained back and a shattered knee 
2715, The little boy received his first violin lessons during the school education 
2716, The content of the curriculum can also act as a form of discrimination against refugee children involved in the education systems of first asylum countries 
2717, for gifted and highly motivated students, fern creek offers an advanced program curriculum that provides even more stimulating coursework 
2718, As of the 2008 school year, the music program has expanded to include such as classes as piano, guitar, big band, and string ensemble 
2719, He is a professor of physics in the Berkeley Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of California, Berkeley, where he teaches courses on quantum field theory and string theory 
2720, Sometimes he worked from night up to morning, then studied his lessons and started teaching up to midday and after that he himself attended one of his masters? class 
2721, Coding will be introduced from class 6 and experiential learning will be adopted 
2722, The second will include structured instruction with accompanying homework assignments on a variety of topics as described below. 
2723, they can also earn more by taking classes to improve their teaching , or by raising tests scores. 
2724, The mid-term and final exams will primarily test your ability to make sense of the narrative of the course. 
2725, Some of the topics include: using a to-do list, setting priorities , and reducing stress through time management. 
2726, And on my 17th birthday, my parents, knowing how much I loved speed, gave me one driving lesson for my 17th birthday. 
2727, Online learning activities exert great influence on quality of online courses and effects of online study. 
2728, In keeping with this curriculum and practices, Larson has written a book titled ''Mathematical Practices'', with examples of how teachers can implement the curriculum and practices in Grades K-8 
2729, In 2003, a string program was instituted for primary students 
2730, The course work covered the baking and pastry skills that will be used in the baking field of the food service industry and were taught by professional chef instructors 
2731, Work on the capacity building of teachers to implement government initiated curriculum reforms 
2732, A teacher can craft new tools based on the mathematical and pedagogical needs of a lesson without the traditional limits of a fixed set of generic tools 
2733, Request to attend courses that will improve your skills and knowledge base 
2734, Your biggest potential expenditure is for instructor-led courses (online or in a vendor classroom) 
2735, Take a training course and get a license 
2736, In Years 9 and 10, the curriculum broadens as the boys enter Stage 5 
2737, Taking a course or attending a conference is just the beginning of learning new technology and techniques 
2738, Computer classes for both boys and girls have been started in Senior Boys and Girls wings 
2739, It is a curriculum, a course in understanding country blues guitar using various keys, tunings, timings, standard notation, tablature, chord charts, and fingerpicking techniques 
2740, these classes included such subjects as weapons training for self-defense, antiriot procedures, traffic and crowd control, first aid, and fire-fighting 
2741, Traditional courses description is unclear, and curriculum targeted useless, the collective class on the form of large class 
2742, All these instructors are certified in the discipline they teach and bring an intense enthusiasm for the classes they teach. 
2743, I'm just telling myself that the first half of this class, I've been doing well and I comprehended almost every important point thoroughly. 
2744, These have included swords, machine guns, and traditional vampire-slaying tools such as stakes and crosses 
2745, Their disagreeable bat , the symbol thinking that it is a vampire and a demon 
2746, When she offers to make her brother a vampire, he stakes her 
2747, Have you ever heard the legend that the werewolf will come out in the full moon night? 
2748, Bergman is transferred to a hospital but after becoming a vampire, he is burned alive when a nurse opens the window and lets the sunlight in 
2749, Justin discovers Juliet is a vampire, and she tells him she knows he is a wizard 
2750, The werewolf and vampire are similar in many ways 
2751, Dracula is a vampire that sleeps in a coffin during the day 
2752, Vampires have long been a part of the folklore of certain areas, particularly in parts of Eastern Europe. 
2753, The only way one can be turned into a vampire is to be drained out of blood, with not even one drop left, like a living corpse. 
2754, There was a Slavic belief that those who had been werewolves in life would become vampires after death 
2755, However, the werewolf and vampire myths spring from6 very different origins 
2756, She is an enigmatic oracle who guides vampires towards their destiny, specifically Sam, and later turns him into the fourth vampire elder 
2757, All vampires have red eyes and fangs, and will burn if subjected to direct sunlight 
2758, In the novel, Dracula isn't killed by a wooden stake to the heart, the usual way to kill a vampire in folklore, but by a bowie knife. 
2759, for example, a Christian vampire would fear the cross, but a Jewish vampire would not 
2760, As Angel grapples with the vampire in a food court, Spike throws the blade from a meat slicer, severing the hand upon which the vampire is wearing the Gem 
2761, Dogs, cats, plants or even agricultural tool could become vampires 
2762, Aurora stabs him with a cross, revealing that he was a vampire 
2763, Next to her, three other vampires with golden eyes stared at me with open curiosity. 
2764, Vampires were identified by handing out garlic in church and observing who did not eat it. 
2765, Since then, were wolves can only turn on a full moon and vampires are weakened by the sun 
2766, He is also the elder brother of the founding vampires, possessing both intelligence and reason 
2767, Garlic hung in Windows or chimneys was believed to ward off vampires and werewolves, too 
2768, How about stakes through the heart? Reflections? Photographs? Holy water? Garlic? All that traditional vampire lore. 
2769, vampires fear as the sun, can only live in the dark. 
2770, *''Streets of the Long Voyage'' (1970) *''The Inspector of Tides'' (1972) *''Drug Poems'' (1972) *''Memoirs of a Velvet Urinal'' (1975) *''Voyage into Solitude'' (1978), ed 
2771, The title comes from Kipling's 1915 poem, ''My Boy Jack'' 
2772, ? He said the poems in ''The Painting Birds'' were ?acutely observant commentaries unbridled by time, topic or geography 
2773, Similar to "Vacancy", the verses of "Strange Illusions" were taken from a poem by Skelly, matched to chords by Power 
2774, Her first book of poetry, ''This Kind of Bird Flies Backward'', was published in 1958 by Hettie Jones and LeRoi Jones' Totem Press 
2775, However this brief verse is the only information the canon scriptures give to this voyage 
2776, His writings included four journals chronicling whaling voyages and two manuscript volumes of poetr 
2777, He later composed the poem ''Gillean Chorea'' ("The Lads in Korea"), in which he declared that the recording had brought back his youth 
2778, His poetry works include ''Peacocks and Squirrels'' and he has completed a first novel, on the life of Marie Bashkirtseff, a Ukrainian artist 
2779, His own verse began appearing as early as 1827 and when his anthology ''The Forest Wreath'' was published in 1833 he was hailed as a prodigy 
2780, The poems Gong wrote on the journey were later compiled into a book, ''Ji Hai Miscellaneous Poems,'' which is still quite popular among Chinese people today 
2781,  poet's journey to the infernal regions, where he encounters figures representing forms of suffering and terror 
2782, Jackson uses the 14th-century Dutch 'Van Sente Brandane' as the basis for his poetry collection ''The Voyage of St Brendan'' (Bloodaxe Books, 2021) 
2783, Writing style and Theme The Voyage of the Arctic Tern is a work of historical fantasy told in poetic form, with an alternate endrhyme 
2784, The poem is headed by the statement 'Written for the lads in France during the Great War' 
2785, Purdy also wrote a poem entitled "At the Quinte Hotel" about the strip club in Trenton called The Sherwood Forest Inn 
2786, Rodriguez compared the succession of poems to stages in a "veritable interior voyage" 
2787, Sackville's first important literary work was the poem ''Induction'', which describes the 
2788, Her poem "The Oracle on River Street" won third place for the Rhysling Award and was reprinted in the 2008 Rhysling anthology 
2789, ''A Convergence of Birds: Original Fiction and Poetry Inspired by the Work of Joseph Cornell'' 
2790, While at the university, Bate Besong and Ba'bila Mutia founded Oracle, a journal of poetry edited by students 
2791, He subsequently published two poems about the ship and this voyage: 'HMS ''Eclipse'' Approaches Freetown' 
2792, she notes indeed that Tolkien wrote a 1955 poem called ''Imram'' about the voyage of the Irish monk Saint Brendan 
2793, Her 1997 collection of poetry, ''Cocktails with Breughel at the Museum Caf?'', was selected as the winner of a national manuscript competition 
2794, His first volume of poems, ''A Gloucestershire Lad at Home and Abroad'', was published in September 1916, shortly after his capture 
2795, It was long, lean, shiny, and black, a paperback, over a hundred pages full of musical notes and chords and the most surprising poetry I?d ever read 
2796, The text of the poem is as follows: Her lute hangs shadowed in the apple-tree, :While flashing fingers weave the sweet-strung spell :Between its chords 
2797, The work employs a mixture of lyrical verse and prose, is highly allusive, and ranges in tone from formal to Cockney colloquial and military slang 
2798, Phu later returned to Rayong to visit his father, and wrote a poem about the journey called ''Nirat Mueang Klaeng'' which became one of his most famous poems 
2799, a poem by him which was published in 'Coracle', the official publication of the Iona Community (Scotland) 
2800, He wrote about his poems, how they were born, their journeys so far and other author's views on them 
2801, The poem takes place sometime during the poet's childhood and features a boy who loves his father, but is afraid of him 
2802, Many of his best poems were inspired by such journeys 
2803, It is one of three poems that Larkin wrote about train journeys 
2804, In the poem, the speaker describes how, as a boy, he watched a pair of mocking-birds nesting, until one day the she-bird flew away and never returned 
2805, In this poetry work, he let a range of symbolic birds express his own personal situation 
2806, In 1841, he published a volume of prose and verse entitled ''The Forester's Offering'' 
2807, She wrote the poetry books ''A Comrade is as Precious as a Rice Seedling'' and ''Journey: An Autobiography in Verse (1964-1995)'' 
2808, The bulk of the poem describes this traumatic journey 
2809, A poetic sequence, "The Oracle", was published in Landfall 60 (1961), the first poem of which subsequently appeared in Challis's collection, ''Building'' (Caxton, 1963) 
2810, '''Little Boy Blue''' is a poem by Eugene Field about the death of a child, a sentimental but beloved theme in 19th-century poetry 
2811,  The opening words of the poem The Gate of the Year" struck a chord with a country facing the uncertainty of war 
2812, This stringent structure restricted Tang poetry to the middle and upper classes and academia 
2813, Along the way he composes 16 poems that sardonically capture his journey 
2814, Even as the poem mourns Lincoln, there is a sense of triumph that the ship of state has completed its journey 
2815, A Monmouthshire poet, Myfanwy Haycock, wrote a poem about the now disused windmill 
2816, The poem refers The Little Boy, from the poems "The Little Boy lost" and "The Little Boy found" 
2817, In 2011 Morrison released ''Clubland ? Second Edition'' (published by Fighting Cock Press USA), an enlarged collection of poems about rock & roll bars, written in verse 
2818, The poems "Mid-Term Break" and "The Blackbird of Glanmore" are related to his brother's death 
2819, ''The Year's Best Days, for Boys and Girls'' was a collection of stories in prose and in verse, for young people 
2820, Bishop also wrote a poem about special relativity, "E = mc2", which ends: Come little lad 
2821, She released her debut poetry collection ''How to Cure a Ghost'' in 2019 and her debut novel ''Like a Bird'' in 2020 
2822, After sweeping up the coast quickly against light Japanese resistance, they captured Sio in early January 1944, having suffered only very light casualties 
2823, During 1915 and 1916 Pickthall trained in automobile mechanics to do her part in the war effort 
2824, Her brothers were killed in the war and she has said that moment was the hardest of the war for her 
2825, Her father and his wizard Unciel realize that an alliance between Dacia and Serre will protect their country from war 
2826, The victory cost the Yorktown and a destroyer, but Midway changed the complexion of the Pacific War literally overnight. 
2827, One of the soldiers who fought there was a boy called Elez Dervi?evi?, the youngest soldier to fight in the Soca battle in World War I 
2828, On 12 January 1982, he survived a car bomb explosion near his house in Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War 
2829, During the War of 1812, British forces acquired liberated slaves and freedmen who had fought on the side of the British during the conflict with the United States 
2830, His brother died in the Estonian War of Independence, 8 years older sister had died in Estonia a few years after World War II 
2831, Burgin brought food for prisoners of war housed on British prison ships in New York 
2832, Indiana remained anti-slavery and in the American Civil War remained with the Union and contributed men to the war 
2833, He was also the younger brother of General Sir Hubert Gough (1870?1963), who led the British Fifth Army on the Western Front during the First World War 
2834, Sweden became the target destination for deserters because it was the only country that granted asylum to Vietnam War deserters 
2835, The White Boys were adversely affected by the outbreak of the First World War 
2836, the fruits of their labors were used by both the Axis and Allied militaries in World War II (cf 
2837, After the outbreak of the Somali Civil War in 1991, some Somalis sought asylum in India 
2838, The boy was drafted as a ''Flakhelfer'' and was a prisoner of war for a short time 
2839, The King of Prussia Wilhelm I, the future emperor of the Imperial Germany, and Bismarck viewed the battle from the hills overlooking Sedan 
2840, The charge occurred on the first day of the war and was part of the larger Battle of Tuchola Forest 
2841, mccook was involved in several campaigns and battles in the western theater, including perryville, stones river, the tullahoma campaign, chattanooga, and chickamauga 
2842, Furthermore, the end of the war brought the end of large shipments of food seized from occupied nations that had sustained Germany during the war 
2843, When the forests of the high ranges reach maturity and bear fruit, the Blopikians set them on fire to start the war between the rival tribes 
2844, During this time the regiment took part in the Duffla Hill Expedition, the Second Afghan War, the Third Anglo-Burmese War, the Siege of Malakand and the Campaign against the Bunerwals 
2845, The North Vietnamese attacked minority ethnic hill tribes in Laos during the Vietnam War 
2846, '''Operation Rooster 53''' was an Israeli military operation during the War of Attrition to capture an Egyptian P-12 radar system 
2847, The name likely comes from the nearby thick forest known as The Wilderness Forest, where a Civil War battle nearby known as the Battle of the Wilderness occurred 
2848, the 77th was instrumental in the 20th group achieving its kill record of 432 enemy aircraft, 400 locomotives, 1,555 freight cars, 94 ammunition cars and 536 motor vehicles destroyed 
2849, The boy runs away, and when the war comes to Somalia, the boy goes to join an army camp 
2850, At the beginning of the war in 1937 the armour were organized in three Armoured Battalions, equipped with tanks and armoured cars from various countries 
2851, After Artabanus' death in 38 AD, a long civil war ensued between the rightful successor Vardanes I and his brother Gotarzes II 
2852, Japanese forces storm all China's landward defences by noon the following day 
2853, During the Second World War the Regiment served as an Infantry unit and in 1954 was converted to a Tank Regiment and subsequently in 1962 into an armoured car regiment 
2854, the final battle of the Seven Years' War in North America at the Battle of Signal Hill 
2855, The failure of this historical class war eventually drives him to a madhouse 
2856, By midmorning, the Spaniards were sweeping the coast with their artillery, and the fighting was fierce 
2857, The Civil War resulted in more construction in the Capitol Hill area, including the building of hospitals 
2858, forces would later on in the civil war return to the Masaya area to storm Coyotepe hill 
2859, By the late 1930s the boy was virtually grown up, and finding himself in London when war broke out in 1939 he joined the British army 
2860, The central town is circled by diminishing graveyard, hinting the wars 
2861, He served in the Army of Northern Virginia during the Peninsula Campaign and other battles, including the Battle of Gettysburg, where the regiment assaulted Cemetery Hill 
2862, At the outbreak of war in 1914, nineteen lads from the village had travelled to the barracks in Northampton to enlist 
2863, He later died in France while serving in the First World War during the Battle of the Argonne Forest just a month before the Armistice 
2864, Their incessant wars led to population dislocation, food shortages, and an increase in the slave trade 
2865, The brothers fought back against Germans and collaborators, waging guerrilla warfare in the forests of Belarus 
2866, The early part of the war consisted of a continual string of Swedish victories under Charles XII 
2867, The wars forced women to work in agriculture rather than pursue a degree as necessary items such as food and water started to become more scarce and expensive 
2868, The battle for Hill 262 began during the final stages of the Normandy Campaign 
2869, Fortunately for the Confederates, McDowell did not press his advantage and attempt to seize the strategic ground immediately, choosing to bombard the hill with the batteries of Capts 
2870, The campaign inflicted a string of defeats on the Xhosa, such as at Trompetter's Drift on the Fish River, and most of the Xhosa chiefs surrendered 
2871, Eventually, as more were formed, some moved into forested areas to begin partisan warfare 
2872, In the early 19th century numerous 'mozos' or lads from the Oscos joined the troops of Castropol in the War of Independence from French occupation 
2873, When referring to the new war between Nicea and Bulgaria, Rubruck described Michael as "a mere lad whose power has been eroded" by the Mongols 
2874, During the War of Independence of 1857, local people fought against the British in this forest 
2875, During the War of Attrition, Israeli commandos captured a Soviet-built P-12 radar station in an operation code-named Rooster 53 
2876, 5 million to implement a central plant that provides steam for heating for up to 80% of all on-campus 
2877, Another way to warm the meal when a stove is unavailable is by putting it in the pocket of a coat during winter 
2878, It has a coal-burning furnace that produces steam for heating 
2879, Thanks to its high level of caffeine, a steamy mug of green tea will pick you up as it warms you up. 
2880, FengWoMei mainly used for family use anthracite fire-making, heating, made the honeycomb cylindrical briquettes. 
2881, Second method, electrothermal pad will enable us to be cooler in a blanket 
2882, work, many people stay in air-conditioned rooms or heater do not feel cold next to it. 
2883, door, boiler, of iron or steel, for central heating apparatus (excl. steam generators) 
2884, Snow leaves, we will hold some fire heat, flames Wang Wang's 
2885, They collected some firewood and made a fire to keep themselves warm 
2886, that seat is close enough to the radiator so that I'm warm, yet not so close that I sweat. 
2887, They added a coal furnace in the basement with radiators throughout the house for central heating 
2888, He also built the first hot-air furnace system for the heating of homes 
2889, The little country schoolhouse was heated by an old-fashioned coal stove 
2890, Dress warmly inside your house when it's cold, instead of turning up the heat 
2891, Forced-air and electric heating pad are currently the most effective noninvasive choices. 
2892, The feet were positioned on top of the stove to become warm 
2893, Water heating is composed of boiler or central heating, heating pipe, heating coil set water, such as several major components. 
2894, We need not store away coal for winter any more because we have heating 
2895, The electric blanket can keep you warm during your sleep in winter 
2896, As powerless houses grew cold, residents bundled up and kept under blankets, went to stay or visit with others who had electricity, or used their car heaters to temporarily warm-up 
2897, In homes with numerous rooms, more than one floor, air conditioning or large sized, a central furnace is often justified or required to ensure sufficiently uniform temperatures 
2898, WWE history, one of the most famous professional wrestler 
2899, I have heard smackdown used to describe a fight or physical contest -- like a wrestling competition 
2900, Wrestling competitions were held not only in big cities, but also at country fairs and traveling shows 
2901, Sumo is all about breaking the balance of your opponent without breaking your own body balance. 
2902, Germany is a leading wrestling nation in Europe with many talented individuals. 
2903, Not only was this my most difficult wrestling match of my life, it was my most embarrassing. 
2904, A professional sumo wrestler, or rikishi, has many different rules and regulations to follow. 
2905, In sumo wrestling, the biggest, fattest, heaviest dude is going to win, or at least have the advantage. 
2906, Lance Palmer, a 140-pound high school wrestler(1) and four-time state champ recently wrestled a 650-pound black bear Ceaser at the annual Travel & Outdoor Show 
2907, Cruiserweight Ariya Daivari and his brother Shawn Daivari, in his first WWE appearance since 2007, came out to interrupt them 
2908, The wrestler pinned his opponent to the canvas. 
2909, I've always been a huge fan of WWE and pro wrestling 
2910, The winner of the tournament, which has taken place every summer for almost 650 years, is declared baspehlivan, or "head wrestler 
2911, Regarding his future in the wrestling industry, he said that he'd like to finish his career on his terms and return to WWE for a brief run and retirement match 
2912, Both of the wrestlers tried to tumble the adversary with all their strength. 
2913, Wrestling is an important activity in the lives of the Inner Mongolian people 
2914, prior to competing against former professional wrestler larry brewbaker, williams wanted to prove a serious point on his insight concerning professional fighting and the association it has with age 
2915, After circling around for a minute, the two wrestlers came to grips with each other. 
2916, the following year she was one of the competitors in the annual copa antonio pe?a, which for the first time featured both male and female wrestlers fighting each other 
2917, He performed for various territories of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), becoming a two-time NWA World Heavyweight Champion, and multi-time NWA Tag Team Champion with his brother Gerald Brisco 
2918, '''The Last Show at the Madhouse''' was a professional wrestling live event produced by Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) on August 26, 1999 
2919, A contest can finish early if a wrestler wins the first 2 periods or pins his opponent 
2920, It was said that every Maratha boy at the time could wrestle and even women took up the sport 
2921, In 1935, Steve and his brother Paddy Casey joined the British Amateur Wrestling Team 
2922, the wrestler stands in front of and facing a bent over opponent and places them in a gutwrench waistlock or a standing headscissors 
2923, More frightening is that some dead walk in the streets, bloodthirsty, such as life, has already turned into a horrible zombie. 
2924, If an infection breaks out in a city of 500, 000 people, the zombies will outnumber the susceptibles in about three days. 
2925, Immortals killed by Designated Marksmen's rounds or monofilament cartridge will not respawn. 
2926, Desiring revenge, Lu returns to the town and hires Wu Lung, a Taoist priest, to raise several zombies to fight Pang 
2927, Upon arriving, he finds zombies springing from the graveyard 
2928, Reanimation of ghouls will decrease population. Reanimation of soulless will decrease unburied corpses. 
2929, As more and more zombie-fied creatures attack the group, they use every implement available to defend themselves 
2930, Once people are bitten or scratched by them would be infected, and even become a zombie immediately. 
2931, People but they bite or scratches on will be infected, and turned into zombies 
2932, After he's bitten by a beetle carrying a zombie virus, a tough soldier survives the infection, becoming only half zombie 
2933, Rick has been besieged by the number of zombie survivors of aid, after some struggling to fight, they eventually return to the field camp 
2934, Modern zombies are usually created, not by voodoo, but by infection 
2935, To ensure the animals' health, the food is supplied by the zoo, either from vending machines or a kiosk nearby 
2936, Trials were conducted at the Perth Zoo to determine whether the broad leaves deterred granivores from foraging the fruit by the short-billed black cockatoo funereus latirostris'') 
2937, The zoo orchard with trees such as mango, guava, and coconut supplies fruits for the park's daily requirement 
2938, A sea lion is poised to catch a piece of fish thrown by his keeper at the zoo in the German city of Stuttgart. 
2939, Zoo officials say they didn't have time to take the animal elsewhere 
2940, Zoo Central features a concessions area, carousel, and children's train ride that traverses the north side of the African Journey exhibit 
2941, Sparrows were also trapped as food for falconers' birds and zoo animals 
2942, The ''Mus?e zoologique'' is one of the oldest in France and is especially famous for its collection of birds 
2943, It serves as a petting zoo where visitors can feed the animals food provided by the zoo 
2944, Of course. Beijing Zoo is one of the biggest zoos in the world and has the most famous is the giant panda, a national treasure. 
2945, The youngster is now roaming around its pen and nibbling on fruit and flowers at Taronga Western Plains Zoo in New South Wales, Australi 
2946, When the Zoological Gardens was set up in 1876, he donated many birds and animals from his personal collection 
2947, Two captive individuals on a skewer of fruit The Egyptian fruit bat is well represented in zoos around the world 
2948, Zoos of various kinds are justifying their existence by providing a lifeline for the existence of critically endangered species. 
2949, In 1973, the zoo had 158 mammal species, 259 bird species, 56 reptile species and 7 fish species 
2950, guests can see the zoo's family of titi monkeys, a kinkajou, two Wied's marmosets, and a colony of African straw-colored fruit bats 
2951, SAI currently works with two zoos and one animal refuge to provide food and medical care with additional plans to work with more 
2952, At the Night Safari, you can _watch these animals in a more natural environment_ than in a normal zoo 
2953, A park or an institution in which living animals are kept and usually exhibited to the public. Also called zoological garden 
2954, A five-month-old red-necked wallaby joey pokes her head out of her mother's pouch at Taronga zoo, Sydney, Australia 
2955, Other zoo residents include black squirrel monkeys, pheasants, Japanese cranes and peafowls 
2956, At the Taman Safari Zoo in Indonesia, one-month-old Sumatran tiger twins and a pair of baby orangutans shared a room in the zoo's nursery. 
2957, A wildlife campaigner in Indonesia has accused the country's zoos of doing nothing to stop orangutangs from smoking cigarettes. 
